 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE 

PREPARATION OF MANUSCRIPTS 

 

 

 

For the Annual Reviews of: 

 

Anthropology 

Astronomy and Astrophysics 

Cancer Biology 

Cell and Developmental Biology 

Clinical Psychology 

Criminology 

Developmental Psychology 

Earth and Planetary Sciences 

Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics 

Economics 

Financial Economics 

Fluid Mechanics 

Food Science and TechnologyLaw and Social Science 

Linguistics 

Marine Science 

Neuroscience 

Organizational Psychology and Organizational 
Behavior 

Political Science 

Psychology 

Resource Economics 

Sociology 

Statistics and Its Application 

Vision Science 

 

 

 

 

Thank you for accepting our invitation to contribute to Annual Reviews. Recognizing the effort involved 
in writing for us, Annual Reviews strives to be responsive during your article’s submission, vetting, and 
revision processes. We provide editorial, graphics, and online support at every step. The information in 
this handbook provides further details about Annual Reviews and the preparation of your manuscript. If 
you have any questions about the information, please contact your journal’s Production Editor. 

 

 

 

 

Revised February 2020 

 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Manuscript Submission Checklist .................................................................................................................. 4 

Required Elements 

 Optional Elements 

 

Annual Reviews’ Editorial Principles and Policies ........................................................................................ 5 

 Principles 

 Copyright, Archiving, and Permissions 

 Disclosure Statement 

 An Original Synthesis of Ideas 

 

Manuscript Preparation ................................................................................................................................... 7 

 Software 

Style 

 Length 

 Quotation Guidelines 

 

Article Components ......................................................................................................................................... 9 

 Required Elements 

 Optional Elements 

 Examples and Illustrations of Article Components 

 

Graphic Components ..................................................................................................................................... 13 

 Tables 

 Figures 

 

Supplemental Material ................................................................................................................................... 15 

 

Literature Cited ............................................................................................................................................... 16 

 Harvard-Style References 

 Citations in Text 

 Citations in Bibliography 

 Bibliographic Style 

 Citation Management Software 

 Website Citations 

 

Nomenclature ................................................................................................................................................. 20 

 General Nomenclature 

 Abbreviations and Symbols 

 


Equations and Formulas ................................................................................................................................ 21 

 Software 

Layout 

 Special Characters 

 

Submitting Your Manuscript Files ................................................................................................................ 22 

 Online Submission Instructions 

 Email and FTP Submission Options 

 

APPENDIX A: Literature Cited Examples ..................................................................................................... 23 

APPENDIX B: Standard Abbreviations and Units ........................................................................................ 27 

 

 

 

 


MANUSCRIPT SUBMISSION CHECKLIST 

Include the following with your submission: 

REQUIRED ELEMENTS 

 Editable files of manuscript, figures, and tables (Microsoft Word or TeX file for text; see Author 
Graphics Guide for acceptable figure file types); if submitting in TeX, include bib file and all other 
associated files 

 Title Page: full article title, author(s) name(s) and affiliation(s) including email address(es) and, if 
available, ORCID numbers for all authors, corresponding author contact information 

 Keywords: as many as 6 

 Abstract: 150 words maximum, except for Astronomy and Astrophysics (225 words maximum) 

 Headings: clearly formatted throughout text 

 Figures: submit each figure with its own caption clearly labeled; provide a separate file for each 
figure, and do not integrate them within the text. Send editable, high-resolution or vector files. See 
Author Graphics Guide for more details. In addition to individual figure files, provide a PDF file 
containing all figures. Obtain any necessary permissions for use, including paying any fees (Annual 
Reviews is able to offer assistance with fees in some cases). Please refer to the Figure Permission 
Guidelines for more details about permission for and attribution of graphics from other sources 

 Tables: either all at end of article, following Literature Cited, or submitted together in a separate 
editable file 

 Literature Cited: see correspondence from your Production Editor for the maximum number of 
references permitted; references should be formatted per journal specifications (see sections of this 
handbook, below, for details) 

 PDF file of final manuscript, including all figures, tables, references, and optional elements (listed 
below), in addition to the editable files 

OPTIONAL ELEMENTS 

 Terms and Definitions list: provide definitions for as many as 20 of the most important abbreviations 
or key terms, limited to 20 words maximum; insert below Literature Cited section 

 Summary Points list: highlight the central points of your review (as many as 8), in complete 
sentences; insert above Acknowledgments and/or Literature Cited section 

 Future Issues list: note where research may be headed (as many as 8), in complete sentences; insert 
above Acknowledgments and/or Literature Cited section 

 Reference Annotations: brief (15 words maximum) explanation of citations’ importance (as many as 
10); insert below Literature Cited section 

 Related Resources list: up to 10 references, not listed in Literature Cited, to materials (websites, 
books, videos) that may be of interest to readers; insert below Literature Cited section 

 Sidebar (50 words minimum, 200 words maximum) briefly discussing a fascinating adjacent topic; 
insert below Literature Cited section, but be sure to call out the sidebar in text; it will be typeset near 
the section containing the callout 


ANNUAL REVIEWS’ EDITORIAL PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES 

PRINCIPLES 

Invited Annual Reviews authors contribute, for 
the benefit of all scientists and students, the 
highest-quality scientific literature reviews in the 
world. As a nonprofit organization, our mission 
is to provide the widest possible dissemination 
of this invaluable work. Annual Reviews strives 
to keep the costs of such dissemination low, 
preserve the integrity of the publications it 
shepherds, and leave authors free to maximize 
the benefits of their work. Annual Reviews 
offers its content, immediately upon publication, 
to the developing world through Research4Life 
and the International Network for Access to 
Scientific Publications. 

COPYRIGHT, ARCHIVING, AND 
PERMISSIONS 

United States copyright law requires Annual 
Reviews to obtain from each author an explicit 
transfer of those rights necessary for orderly 
publication of its journals in print and online. 
Therefore, we ask each author to sign a 
statement transferring full and exclusive rights 
to their article, including all tables and 
illustrations, to Annual Reviews. If you and all 
your co-authors are United States federal 
employees who have written your manuscript 
within the scope of your official duties, then 
Annual Reviews does not seek copyright. This is 
because domestic copyright protection is not 
available for any work of the United States 
government. Some other countries, including the 
United Kingdom, have similar policies. 

 

PREPRINT VERSION Authors are free to post the 
preprint version of their work on an institutional 
repository. You may self-archive a preprint 
version of your work provided (a) any preprint 
posted to the web after the completion of the 
Annual Reviews Copyright Transfer Agreement 
states explicitly by which Annual Reviews 
journal the manuscript has been accepted, and 
(b) after the published version of the work 
appears on the Annual Reviews website, the 
preprint version is amended to include the 
following acknowledgment and link: “Posted 
with permission from the Annual Review of 
_________________, Volume ___, 
copyright_______ Annual Reviews, 
http://www.annualreviews.org.” 

 

POSTPRINT VERSION AND ePRINT URLs Text, 
tables, illustrations, and bibliographies edited or 
otherwise prepared by Annual Reviews may not 
be posted on preprint servers. Authors are not 
permitted to post a postprint or the published 
version of your review (including text, tables, 
illustrations, and bibliographies edited or 
otherwise) anywhere on the open Internet. 

However, Annual Reviews both permits and 
encourages its authors to self-archive, after the 
work’s publication, an Annual Reviews–
supplied ePrint URL (a specially keyed URL 
that allows nonsubscribers to access an Annual 
Review article freely via the Annual Reviews 
website) on one personal website and/or one 
institutional repository. The ePrint URL is 
automatically supplied by the Production Editor 
upon completion of the production process. 

 The ePrint URL is a specially keyed URL that 
allows nonsubscribers to access an Annual 
Review article freely via the Annual 
Reviews website. 

 

Authors have the nonexclusive right to use, 
reproduce, distribute, perform, update, create 
derivatives, and make copies of the work 
(electronically or in print) in connection with the 
author’s teaching, conference presentations, 
lectures, and publications, provided proper 
attribution is given. They may post free ePrint 
URL links to their published AR articles on one 
personal and one institutional webpage. For all 
postpublication use, the acknowledgment and 
link below must be included (blanks to be filled 
with appropriate information). 

“Posted [Reproduced] with permission from the 
Annual Review of ___________________, 
Volume ___, copyright_______ Annual 
Reviews, http://www.annualreviews.org” 

 


For further details on sharing the ePrint URL, 
please visit the Electronic Reprints for Authors 
page on the AR website: 
http://www.annualreviews.org/page/authors/author-instructions/distributing/reprints. 

 

PERMISSIONS For use of all or part of any 
material published by Annual Reviews by 
anyone other than the author, permission must 
be obtained. We have authorized the Copyright 
Clearance Center (CCC) to grant permission for 
reproducing our materials and to collect royalty 
fees on our behalf. In our view, CCC has an 
outstanding service record and performs an 
important role in facilitating copyright 
compliance. For your future convenience, please 
contact CCC directly; you should receive a 
response from them within a week. Follow this 
link to the CCC online granting service: 
http://www.copyright.com/ccc/search.do?operation=show&page=ppu. 

DISCLOSURE STATEMENT 

At the time of manuscript submission, please 
disclose any financial interest of your own, or of 
any member of your authorship team, that might 
be favorably or adversely affected by your 
review. 

Prior to publication, all authors will be asked to 
complete and sign a disclosure statement. 

The possibility of conflict of interest does not 
disqualify anyone from authorship. We will, 
however, disclose the potential conflict of 
interest to our readers. 

 

 

 

 

AN ORIGINAL SYNTHESIS OF IDEAS 

The mission of Annual Reviews is to provide 
critical, scholarly reviews of important topics in 
selected branches of science. Each review must 
be an original work prepared for Annual 
Reviews. 

 Each manuscript must be originally 
written for publication in an Annual Reviews 
journal. 

 

The preparation of a review must, by its very 
nature, rely heavily on the ideas, observations, 
and reports of others. Therefore, it is important 
for authors to exercise care in citing and quoting 
other publications. This precaution applies also 
to the use of the author’s own previous writing. 
The following guidelines are intended primarily 
to protect new Annual Reviews authors from 
inadvertent infringements of copyright, any 
appearance of plagiarism, or accidental bias in 
assembling bibliographies. 

Extra vigilance is required of literature review 
authors, for whom the task of materials 
assembly (today often a software cut-and-paste 
operation) must be separated carefully from 
those of information synthesis and fresh 
expression. 

In view of the historic importance of Annual 
Reviews articles in defining the current state of 
scientific knowledge, authors should strive to be 
fair, yet discriminating, in their selection of 
references. Include only those papers you 
consider to be genuinely important: Do not 
clutter the bibliography with citations of 
marginal relevance to your topic merely for the 
sake of “completeness.” However, do not be so 
sparing with your references that you might 
appear to have minimized or disregarded the 
work of your competitors or newcomers to the 
field. 

 


MANUSCRIPT PREPARATION 

SOFTWARE 

Manuscripts may be prepared in Microsoft Word 
or in LaTeX. If using LaTeX, please go to 
http://www.annualreviews.org/page/authors/general-information, select the journal for which 
you are writing, and download the appropriate 
style file and instructions. 

STYLE 

The style manuals to which we refer at Annual 
Reviews include The Merriam-Webster 
Dictionary, The Chicago Manual of Style, and 
the Council of Science Editors’ Scientific Style 
and Format. 

 

PROOFREADING Please proofread carefully for 
both errors and inconsistencies in the following: 
spelling (especially of scientific terminology, 
proper names, and foreign words), mathematical 
notation, numerical values in tables and text, and 
accuracy of quotations. 

 Be sure all references are cited and all 
tables and figures are called out in the text. 

 

FOOTNOTES We discourage the use of footnotes 
as these tend to interrupt the flow of the text. If 
footnotes are used, number all text footnotes 
consecutively in order of appearance throughout 
the article. Use a superscript number to key each 
footnote to the word or statement annotated (e.g., 
“The term operator1 is used”). Do not use 
footnotes just for references, whether published 
or unpublished. See the Literature Cited section 
starting on p. 16 for guidance on references. 
Designate footnotes to tables by superscript 
lowercase letters; begin lettering anew for each 
table. 

 

ITALICS Indicate italics using an italic type style. 
Avoid the use of underlining. 

Use italics for 

 Scientific names of bacteria and protozoa 
 Genera, species, and subspecific taxa 
 In chemical names, p, o, m, n, cis, sec, sic, 
trans, syn 
 Genes, genotypes, loci, markers, mutants, 
alleles, operons 
 Mathematical variables 


 

Do not use italics for 

 Emphasis 
 Common foreign words such as ad hoc, a 
priori, in vivo, in vitro 
 Abbreviations such as sp., spp., var. 
 Names of taxa of rank higher than genus 
 Generic names used as adjectives 
 Names of microorganisms used colloquially 
(e.g., actinomycetes) 
 Strain designations 
 Names of cells, phages, hosts, phenotypes 
 Abbreviations for subatomic particles 
 R, X, M, B, A, etc. in formulas and equations 
where they represent chemical elements or 
groups 


LENGTH 

ESTIMATING THE LENGTH OF THE MANUSCRIPT 
Every Annual Reviews volume has an assigned 
length. Likewise, each article has a length 
assigned by the editors (always indicated in the 
letter of invitation). Please keep to this length, 
which includes any figures and tables submitted. 

If you are preparing your manuscript in 
Microsoft Word, you can roughly estimate the 
typeset length of your article with online length 
calculator for your Annual Reviews journal. At 
http://www.annualreviews.org/page/authors/general-information, select the journal for which 
you are writing, and click on “Article Length 
Estimator” in the left-hand box. 

If you are preparing your manuscript in LaTeX 
and use the appropriate Annual Reviews style 
file, the PDF output of your article is roughly its 
typeset length. 


 Adhere to the length guidelines presented 
in your invitation letter. 

 

PRODUCING THE SUBMISSION PDF If working in 
Microsoft Word, all material (text, literature 
cited, footnotes, figure captions, tables, and 
other article components) should be prepared 
double spaced using 12-point type. Please do not 
use small (less than 12 point) type or space-and-
a-half line spacing. These manipulations do not 
make your review shorter, only harder to read. 

Number all pages consecutively and arrange in 
this order: title page, text, literature cited, article 
components (see p. 9), figure captions, tables, 
and figures. 

Place the title page on a separate sheet and 
include 

 title of article 
 name(s), affiliation(s), and email address(es) 
for all authors 
 shortened running title (40 characters max) 
 Corresponding Author contact information 


QUOTATION GUIDELINES 

Detailed instructions for citing sources and 
preparing your Literature Cited section are 
included below. Here we describe some general 
guidelines for paraphrasing or quoting from 
others’ work: 

 When describing the findings or theories of 
others, always cite source publications in close 
proximity to your discussion. 
 Omnibus citations at the beginning of an 
article are sometimes appropriate, but they 
should not be used as substitutes for explicit 
citations in the relevant sentences or 
paragraphs of text. 
 The original sources of novel technical 
terminology, or uniquely apposite words or 
phrases recently introduced into the literature, 
should be cited, unless these terms already 
have become established in the common 
vocabulary of the field. 
 If you wish to use a sentence, or an essential 
part thereof, from another article, always set it 
off in quotation marks and cite its source, 
preferably including the page number from 
which the quotation was taken. However, one 
should keep the number of direct quotations to 
a minimum. 
 If you choose to quote several consecutive 
sentences from another source, set off this 
material as an extract. Omit quotation marks 
and indent from both left and right margins; 
after the quotation, indicate the author’s name 
and the year of the reference. 
 If you need to quote, paraphrase, or abridge 
more than approximately 250 words from a 
single source (whether consecutively or in 
scattered quotations), please ensure that 
appropriate permission has been obtained 
from the copyright holder—even when 
quoting from your own work if someone else 
holds the copyright. In cases of extensive 
quotation we urge you to discuss your 
intentions, whenever possible, with the quoted 
author. 
 You must obtain permission to use any 
diagrams, illustrations, or tables from other 
publications. This includes paying any fees, 
though Annual Reviews is able to offer 
assistance with fees in some cases. Please 
refer to the Figure Permission Guidelines for 
more details about permission for and 
attribution of graphics from other sources. 


 

If you have any questions about these guidelines, 
do not hesitate to contact your Production Editor. 

 


ARTICLE COMPONENTS 

REQUIRED ELEMENTS 

To help readers better find and understand what 
they seek, we ask authors to provide the 
following: 

 Title Page: full article title, author(s) name(s) 
and affiliation(s) including email(s) and, if 
available, ORCID numbers for all authors, 
Corresponding Author contact information 
 Keywords: as many as 6; if publishing in an 
Annual Reviews journal indexed in PubMed, 
include MeSH terms if possible 
 Abstract: 150 words maximum, except for 
Astronomy and Astrophysics, which allows 
225 words inclusive of 3–5 bullet points 
describing findings) 
 Headings: clearly formatted throughout text 
 Figures: submit each with its own caption 
clearly labeled; separate file for each figure, 
do not integrate within text. Send editable, 
high-resolution or vector files. See the Author 
Graphics Guide for more details. Number 
figures consecutively in text (i.e., Figure 2 
should not come before Figure 1). In addition 
to individual figure files, provide a PDF file 
containing all figures. Obtain any necessary 
permissions for use, including paying any fees 
(Annual Reviews is able to offer assistance 
with fees in some cases). Please refer to the 
Figure Permission Guidelines for more details 
about permission for and attribution of 
graphics from other sources. 
 Tables: either all at end of article, following 
Literature Cited, or submitted together in a 
separate file 
 Literature Cited: formatted per journal 
specifications 


 

OPTIONAL ELEMENTS 

Authors may also provide any of the below 
additional components: 

 Terms and Definitions list: provide definitions 
for as many as 20 of the most important 
abbreviations or key terms, limited to 20 
words maximum; insert below Literature 
Cited section 
 Summary Points list: highlight the central 
points of your review (as many as 8), in 
complete sentences; insert above the 
Acknowledgments and/or Literature Cited 
section 
 Future Issues list: note where research may be 
headed (as many as 8), in complete sentences; 
insert above the Acknowledgments and/or 
Literature Cited section 
 Reference Annotations: brief (15 words 
maximum) explanation of citations’ 
importance (as many as 10); insert below the 
Literature Cited section 
 Related Resources list: up to 10 references, 
not listed in Literature Cited, to materials 
(websites, articles, animations) that may be of 
interest to readers; insert below the Literature 
Cited section 
 Sidebar (50 words minimum, 200 words 
maximum) briefly discussing a fascinating 
adjacent topic. Please give the sidebar a title 
and insert it below the Literature Cited section, 
but be sure to call out the sidebar in text; it 
will be typeset near the section containing the 
callout. The sidebar cannot contain figures or 
tables. 


 

Examples on the next pages show how these 
components will be laid out in your article. 

 


GRAPHIC COMPONENTS 

Annual Reviews strongly encourages the 
effective use of figures and tables. Article page 
allotments include space used for figures and 
tables. Thus, information presented graphically 
should be referenced, but not repeated, in the 
text. Figures and tables you submit with your 
article will appear in both typeset and HTML 
versions of your article. 

The digital methods for creating and sending 
your figures are treated in the Annual Reviews 
Author Graphics Guide. 

TABLES 

Only material requiring several columns and 
several entries should be submitted in tabular 
form (incorporate other material into the text). 
Tables should fit within an Annual Reviews 
page width (6.33 in; approximately 15 cm). 
Submit editable electronic files for all tables. 

All tables will be formatted according to house 
style. Please adhere to the following guidelines 
when preparing your tables. 

 

BODY OF TABLE Align entries under the 
appropriate heading or subheading. Make sure 
your table clearly indicates the vertical 
alignment of headings and data. Type longer 
entries in block style, leaving extra space 
between entries. Align numbers on the decimal; 
if numerical data are mixed, center entries in the 
column. Write out repeated entries or merge 
cells; do not use ditto marks. Use ND (no data or 
not determined), NA (not applicable or not 
available), and NT (not tested) as needed; do not 
use a dash or leave a cell blank. 

 

FOOTNOTES Footnotes should be at the bottom 
of the table; label each with a superscript 
lowercase letter (a, b, c, etc.) keyed to the title, 
heading, or entry on the table. Begin the 
lettering anew for each table. If a footnote 
applies to more than one table, key it to the title 
of subsequent tables. Include references in the 
body of the table rather than as footnotes. 

ACCEPTABLE FILE TYPES Table files must be 
compatible with Microsoft Word [.doc(x) or .rtf] 
or Excel [.xls(x)]. Mathematically complex 
tables may be submitted in LaTeX. 

The illustration on the previous page is a guide 
for laying out the title, columns, rows, and 
footnotes for a table. 

FIGURES 

Please refer to the Author Graphics Guide for 
details on the preparation of illustrations. 

Figures should be well-designed drawings or 
well-chosen photographs that illustrate key 
points in your article or that present relevant 
data in an economical way. Annual Reviews 
Illustration Editors will work with you to 
enhance your figures’ legibility, color, style, and 
consistency. Modified figures will be sent to you 
for approval before publication. 

To maximize their usability, all figures must be 
submitted in editable digital form. Export your 
figures to PDF format (sometimes available 
under the “print” menu) directly from your 
graphics creation program. If such files are not 
available, please contact your Production Editor. 
Regarding scanning originals, please see the 
Author Graphics Guide for scan resolution. 
Other acceptable file formats and additional 
details are discussed in the Author Graphics 
Guide. 

 

FIGURE SIZING On an Annual Reviews page the 
maximum space available for figures is 6.33 in 
wide × 7.66 in high (approximately 15 cm × 
19.5 cm). Annual Reviews’ in-house Illustration 
Editors will determine the appropriate final 
figure size unless you give specific directions. 
(Note that photographs should not be enlarged 
beyond the size at which they retain 300-dpi 
resolution.) 

 

LETTERING AND SYMBOLS Lettering in figures 
must be of professional quality and large enough 
to be legible. Specify type at 7, 8, or 9 pt. Use a 
standard sans-serif font such as Helvetica, Arial, 


or Myriad Pro. If you plan to submit scaled 
images that contain type, be certain that type is 
still legible (no smaller than 6 pt) and consistent 
in size for all the figures in your review. Ensure 
that text remains editable (not converted to 
shapes or outlines or flattened into images) to 
allow us to make house style or sizing changes. 

 

GRAPHS Graphs should be in editable vector 
format. Using Photoshop or other raster-based 
programs to create graphs is strongly 
discouraged. For plot points in graphs, use 
symbols that are readily available (Zapf 
Dingbats or another computer-generated symbol 
font), and choose symbols that can be seen as 
separate entities along a line. In final form, the 
plot symbols should be large enough to be 
legible (8 pt). For plots with multiple 
lines/symbols, use color to distinguish elements. 

 

CHEMICAL STRUCTURES Complex equations 
and chemical structures that cannot be typeset in 
one or two lines are considered art (see p. 21). If 
possible, such equations should be submitted in 
math-friendly software applications such as 
LaTeX or MathType. Submit complex chemical 
structures as editable vector graphics. 

 

FIGURE CAPTIONS Every figure must have an 
accompanying descriptive caption. Bundle 
figure captions together in a text file (or place 
them at the bottom of the article’s text file). 
Please do not attach captions to figure files. 

 

COLOR FIGURES Color figures are integrated 
into the article’s page layout and printed at no 
cost to you. 

We strongly encourage the use of color in all 
illustrations. You can make use of color to 
differentiate and to group elements in complex 
illustrations, while also applying a consistent 
color scheme across multiple illustrations. Our 
Illustration Editors are here to help. Contact 
your Production Editor with questions. 

See the Author Graphics Guide for details on 
submitting figures. 

 

NUMBERING AND NAMING FIGURES Number 
your figures consecutively as you wish them to 
appear in your review and as they are referenced 
in the text. When preparing your text files, spell 
out the word “Figure” in captions and text. If a 
figure has multiple panels, refer to parts of the 
figure as (a), (b), (c), etc. in the caption and as, 
e.g., Figure 1a in the text. If further distinction is 
needed, subparts can be described as (left), 
(right), (top), (middle), and (bottom). If a 
sequence of steps is shown, numbers may be 
used to label each step. The caption should then 
refer to Step 1, Step 2, etc. 

 

ENHANCED FIGURES Annual Reviews 
Illustration Editors work closely with editors and 
authors to identify figures that can be enhanced 
with links, pop-up text, other interactive 
elements, and videos. These enhancements 
appear online only. Please ask your Production 
Editor for samples if you are interested in 
enhancing the online version of your figures. 

 

PERMISSIONS You must obtain permission to 
reuse and adapt figures prior to submitting your 
manuscript, including paying any fees (Annual 
Reviews is able to offer assistance with fees in 
some cases). Include only figures for which you 
have obtained such permission. The source of 
the material should be credited at the end of the 
figure caption. If a figure has a Creative 
Commons (CC) copyright or is in the public 
domain, you may not need permission to use it, 
but generally attribution of the source is still 
required. Please refer to the Figure Permission 
Guidelines for more details about permission for 
and attribution of graphics from other sources. 

 You are responsible for obtaining 
permission to use any copyrighted material. 

 


SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIAL 

Article-relevant material that is costly, difficult, 
or impossible to include in the typeset PDF may 
be posted on the Annual Reviews website. If 
your article is running overlength, it may also 
make sense to move some content (such as 
figures, tables, or text appendices that provide 
more detail for interested readers) to 
supplemental material to keep the primary 
article within the journal’s length guidelines. 
Note, however, that this material should be 
supportive rather than essential; the primary 
article should still stand alone without requiring 
readers to download and read a supplement. 
These materials are fully linked to the PDF and 
HTML versions of your article. 

Candidates for inclusion in this online repository 
are figures that will not reproduce well in print, 
lengthy tables, data sets, and multimedia objects 
(e.g., sound, video, animations, 3D objects, etc.). 

 

 It is the author’s responsibility to put 
Supplemental Material in a final, copyedited 
form before submission. We do not have 
the personnel to check, revise, or maintain 
these materials upon submission or 
thereafter. 

Authors who wish to publish Supplemental 
Material should notify their Production Editor 
early in the production process. Ideally, such 
materials will be submitted on the manuscript 
due date along with the rest of the article. 

Authors should also review our Supplemental 
Material Policy (online at 
http://www.annualreviews.org/page/authors/author-instructions/preparing/supmat). This policy 
provides detailed guidelines for the submission 
of Supplemental Material, including 

 Preparation guidelines 
 Submission guidelines 
 Supported file types 
 Size limitations on Supplemental Material 
 Maintenance guidelines 
 How to call out your Supplemental Material 
in your article. 


 

 

 


LITERATURE CITED 

Here, you will find general guidelines for citing 
sources in your Annual Reviews article. In 
Appendix A of this handbook, numerous 
examples illustrate how to list various types of 
sources (books, articles, websites, conference 
papers, etc.) in your Literature Cited section. 

 Each reference in the Literature Cited 
section must be mentioned in text, figure 
captions, or tables. 

 

HARVARD-STYLE REFERENCES 

The following Annual Reviews use the 
unnumbered, name and year (Harvard) 
bibliographic style: Anthropology; Astronomy 
and Astrophysics; Cancer Biology; Cell and 
Developmental Biology; Clinical Psychology; 
Criminology; Developmental Psychology; Earth 
and Planetary Sciences; Ecology, Evolution, and 
Systematics; Economics; Financial Economics; 
Fluid Mechanics; Food Science and 
Technology; Law and Social Science; 
Linguistics; Marine Science; Neuroscience; 
Organizational Psychology and Organizational 
Behavior; Political Science; Psychology; 
Resource Economics; Sociology; Statistics and 
Its Application; and Vision Science. 

 

NUMBERED REFERENCES: Some Annual 
Reviews use numbered citations: Analytical 
Chemistry; Animal Biosciences; Biochemistry; 
Biophysics; Biomedical Engineering; 
Biomedical Data Science; Chemical and 
Biomolecular Engineering; Condensed Matter 
Physics; Control, Robotics, and Autonomous 
Systems; Entomology; Environment and 
Resources; Genetics; Genomics and Human 
Genetics; Immunology; Materials Research; 
Medicine; Microbiology; Nuclear and Particle 
Science; Nutrition; Pathology: Mechanisms of 
Disease; Pharmacology and Toxicology; 
Physical Chemistry; Physiology; 
Phytopathology; Plant Biology; Public Health; 
and Virology. 

 

For journals with numbered references, please 
download, or obtain from your Production 
Editor, the appropriate Author Instruction 
Handbook. 

CITATIONS IN TEXT 

 Use the name-and-year system. In 
parenthetical citations, do not include a 
comma between the name and year. 


 

White et al. (1989) tested... 

Later in situ studies also supported 
these results (Allen et al. 2009, 
Zhang 2010). 

 

 Use an ampersand to indicate authorship for 
two authors. For three or more authors, 
generally use “et al.” 


 

White & Gray (2004) experimented... 

Smith et al. (1999) tested the theory. 

 

 Multiple citations should appear consistently 
in either chronological or alphabetical 
sequence throughout. If the order is 
inconsistent, alphabetical order will be applied 
in copyediting. 


 

 Multiple citations within parentheses should 
generally be separated with commas. Use 
semicolons when the citations include names 
with multiple years or to separate unlike items, 
such as unpublished information. 


 

Similar results were obtained in 
yeast (Johnson et al. 2015; Liu 
2003, 2004, 2008; Robinson et al. 
2009; Wilson 1999) and flies... 

...(Moorehouse 2006; J.S. Smith, 
unpublished information). 

 

 Distinguish between references with the same 
author(s) and year by indicating 1987a, 1987b, 
etc. 


 

Byron et al. (1986; 1987a,b) 
determined... 

 

 If there are references by different authors 
with the same surname and year, however, do 
not use lowercase letters; instead, distinguish 



them by including the authors’ first initials. 


 

K.S. Johnson (2009) studied... 

G.R. Johnson (2009) later 
investigated... 

 

 If a direct quotation is included, provide the 
page number(s) of the quotation. 


 

Mouton (2015) writes compellingly of 
“the reward of the struggle” (p. 
87). 

 

 References to specific webpages or other 
specific online material should be included in 
the Literature Cited and cited in the usual 
author-and-name style (rather than by placing 
the URL in the main text or a footnote). For 
general mentions of the website of an 
organization, online database resource, etc., 
the URL can be placed in parentheses in the 
main text. For more details, see the section on 
website citations below. 


 

 References to unpublished observations, 
personal communications, papers in 
preparation, etc., should be enclosed in 
parentheses in text (R.S. Jones, 
unpublished observations). List all 
authors up to six (for seven or more authors, 
list five followed by et al.) and include all 
their initials (as well as your own) in these 
citations. Except for Physical Chemistry, do 
NOT list these citations as references in the 
Literature Cited section. Entomology does not 
permit the citation of unpublished works. 


CITATIONS IN BIBLIOGRAPHY 

 Do not list references as footnotes to the text. 
 Do not use Microsoft Word’s Footnotes or 
Endnotes functions for citing/listing references. 
 Set line spacing to 2 throughout the Literature 
Cited section. 
 Do not indent the first line of each entry. 
 For each author, use last name first, then 
initials, no periods. 


 

 Responsibility for the accuracy of the 
bibliographic references rests entirely with 
the author. 

 List references in alphabetical order by last 
name of author, then by initials, by last name 
of coauthors, and finally by year. Alphabetize 
compound surnames by the first word, e.g., 
list under “de,” “van,” “von,” etc. 


 

Zeiger E. 1990. Article title. 

Zeiger E, Armond P, Melis A. 1981. 
Article title. 

Zeiger E, Bloom AJ, Hepler PK. 1990. 
Article title. 

Zeiger E, Field C, de Vitry C. 1988. 
Article title. 

Zeiger E, Field C, Mooney HA. 1981. 
Article title. 

Zeiger E, Hepler PK. 1991. Article 
title. 

Zeiger E, Hepler PK. 1993. Article 
title. 

 

 Include titles of articles or chapters for all 
Annual Reviews except Astronomy and 
Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics, and 
Nuclear and Particle Science. 


 

 Use italics for the book or journal title (see 
Appendix A for examples). Do not abbreviate 
book titles. Abbreviate titles of journals, 
proceedings, symposia, and serial compendia 
according to the ISSN List of Title Word 
Abbreviations (LTWA), published by the 
International Organization for Standardization. 
(Go to http://www.issn.org/services/online-
services/access-to-the-ltwa/ for general 
information on using the guide, and scroll 
down to the “View the LTWA” section for the 
online guide.) Do not abbreviate one-word 
journal titles. 


BIBLIOGRAPHIC STYLE 

Most cited sources can be formatted using the 
general guidelines below. For exceptions or 
special cases (websites, conference papers, 
errata, abstracts, etc.), see Appendix A at the end 
of this handbook. 

List numbered references in the Literature Cited 
with numerals and period, without parentheses. 
Include the following information (in this order): 

1. Name(s) of author(s), last name first, followed 


by initials without periods. Include both (or all) 
initials for each author whenever they were 
included in the original article or book. Do not 
leave space between initials. Do not use a 
comma between surnames and initials—use 
commas only to separate different authors’ 
names. If a given reference has seven or more 
authors, list the first five, then type “et al.” in the 
bibliography. (But in text, use et al. for three or 
more authors.) If a reference has six or fewer 
authors, list them all. (Exception: For the Annual 
Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics, if a 
given reference has six or more authors, list the 
first three, then type “et al.” in the bibliography. 
If a reference has five or fewer authors, list them 
all.) 

 

2. Year of publication of the article or book, 
followed by a period, with no parentheses. If the 
article has recently been accepted for publication 
and is actually in press, list it in the Literature 
Cited section. Provide journal title and expected 
year of publication, plus volume and pages when 
known. 

 

3. Title of article or chapter (except Astronomy 
and Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics, 
and Nuclear and Particle Science). 

 

4. Title of journal (abbreviated unless only one 
word) or book (not abbreviated unless part of a 
periodical series), e.g., J. Psychol. 

 

5. For a book reference, name(s) of editor(s). 

 

6. Volume number, then a colon and inclusive 
page numbers; if there is no volume number, 
inclusive page numbers preceded by a comma 
and “pp.” Do not repeat hundreds digit unless 
needed, e.g., 3–10, 71–77, 100–9, 331–35, 
1002–3, 1198–202, 1536–38. The issue number 
can be included in parentheses immediately 
following the volume if necessary, e.g., 
10(4):123–30 

 

7. For a book reference, place of publication, 
name of publisher, and edition, if necessary. For 
example: New York: Sage (do not put a period 
at the end of the reference). 

CITATION MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE 

If you are using Clarivate Analytics’ EndNote, 
you may download the journal’s EndNote style 
file from the AR website at 
http://www.annualreviews.org/page/authors/author-instructions/preparing/endnotes. 

If you are using another reference management 
program, it may include the style for the Annual 
Reviews journal for which you are writing. If 
not, you may be able to use the style for another 
Annual Reviews journal (contact your 
Production Editor), or you can edit the citation 
manager’s style module to accord with the 
Annual Reviews journal style, namely: 

 Author names are given last name first, 
followed by initials—with NO punctuation 
except for commas between authors and a 
period at the end. 


Sample: Brown J, Smith R, Jones CE. 

 

 The year comes after the names, followed by a 
period. 
 Journal article titles are lowercase except for 
the first word, proper nouns, and acronyms. 
 Journal titles are italic. Abbreviations are 
followed by periods. 


 

If you have any difficulty setting up your 
EndNote system, please go to 
http://www.endnote.com/support. 

WEBSITE CITATIONS 

GENERAL GUIDELINES When you cite a specific 
source that is housed online, you should include 
it in the Literature Cited section. Entries in the 
Literature Cited section should contain as many 
items from the following list as are relevant and 
available. 

 Name of the author, editor, compiler, or 
translator of the web-based item (if available 
and relevant), followed by any appropriate 
abbreviations, such as ed. 
 Title of article or other short work within a 
scholarly project, database, or periodical 
 Title of an online book or periodical, in italics 
 Name of the editor, compiler, or translator of a 
book (if applicable and if not already listed), 



preceded by any appropriate abbreviation, 
such as ed. 
 Publication information for any print or PDF 
version 
 Title of the scholarly project, database, 
periodical, or professional or personal site (in 
italics) or, for a professional or personal site 
with no title, a description such as home page 
(in italics) 
 Version number (if not part of the title) or, for 
a journal, the volume, issue, or other 
identifying number 
 Date of electronic publication or posting or 
latest update, whichever is most recent (if the 
resource is still being updated) 
 Name of any institution or organization 
sponsoring or associated with the website 
 URL 


 

For example, specific documents posted online 
could be cited as follows: 

Clin. Data Interchange Stand. Consort. 
(CDISC). 2007. CDISC and industry 
collaborative group lead FDA 
critical path initiative 
opportunity for data collection 
standards. Press Release 33, CDISC, 
May 15. 
http://www.cdisc.org/news/PR33cdisccdashprojectfinal.pdf 

US Food Drug Admin. 2004. Innovation 
or stagnation: challenge and 
opportunity on the critical path 
to new medical products. White 
Pap., US Food Drug Admin., 
Washington, DC. 
http://www.fda.gov/oc/initiatives/
criticalpath/whitepaper.html 

 

Specific webpages should cite, at a minimum, 
the author or organization, year, page title, 
website (in italics), and URL. If no specific year 
of posting or last update is included, use the 
current year. 

Calif. Energy Comm. 2016. 
Hydroelectric power in California. 
California Energy Commission. 
http://www.energy.ca.gov/hydroelectric 

Taussig M. 2015. Seeds of time. 
Flatbread Society. 
http://www.flatbreadsociety.net/stories/30/seeds-of-time 

 

SPECIFIC VERSUS GENERAL SOURCES ON 
WEBSITES If you wish to cite a specific source 
that is housed on a website or that is a pamphlet 
or report that is downloadable only, these 
sources should be cited in the Literature Cited 
section according to the instructions described 
above. For example: 

Kennedy E, Dodd C, Clinton HR. 2005. 
Letter to US Dep. Labor, Apr. 12. 
http://www.nationalpartnership.org/site/DocServer/FMLASenateLettertoDOL.pdf?docID=963 

 

In contrast, to reference a general website that 
might be a good source of information for your 
reader, include it in text only, not in the 
Literature Cited section. For example: 

 

A valuable clearinghouse of 
information on the passage of 

the Family and Medical Leave 

Act is the online library at 

the National Partnership 

for Women & Family website 
(http://www.nationalpartnership.org). 

 

Because webpages and online documents often 
disappear or move to new URLs, we encourage 
you to refer only to URLs that you expect to be 
stable and accessible to readers of your article 
for many years to come, and to provide enough 
information in each reference that readers can 
locate the cited material even if the URL stops 
working. 

You may wish to host material on unstable 
websites as Supplemental Material (see p. 15). 
Also, URLs can be included in the Related 
Resources section of your review (see p. 9). 

 


NOMENCLATURE 

GENERAL NOMENCLATURE 

The primary nomenclature manual for Annual 
Reviews is Scientific Style and Format: The CSE 
Manual for Authors, Editors, and Publishers 
(8th edition). Other authoritative references are 
listed below. 

 

BACTERIOLOGICAL NAMES Use the List of 
Bacterial Names with Standing in Nomenclature 
(http://www.bacterio.cict.fr) and the Approved 
Lists of Bacterial Names as guides for validly 
published scientific names of bacteria and 
archaea. Use Bergey’s Manual of Determinative 
Bacteriology and Index Bergeyana as guides for 
names of unknown bacteria. 

 

INORGANIC, ORGANIC, AND BIOCHEMICAL 
NOMENCLATURE We accept all abbreviations, 
symbols, and trivial names in the rules of the 
IUPAC-IUB. 

 

DRUGS Use nonproprietary (generic) names for 
drugs. When the name is relatively unfamiliar, 
follow its first use with the trade name. 
Entomology, Medicine, Nutrition, Pathology: 
Mechanisms of Disease, and Pharmacology and 
Toxicology require the use of ® as a superscript 
on first use of a trade name. 

EXCEPTION: In Psychology, the terms adrenaline 
and noradrenaline (not capitalized) are 
permissible in place of epinephrine and 
norepinephrine. 

 

GENETICS The 8th edition of Scientific Style and 
Format covers all organisms for which they 
have been able to obtain rules and guidelines 
(http://www.councilscienceeditors.org/publications/resources.cfm). Also see the section on italics 
in this handbook. 

 

GENUS-SPECIES SCIENTIFIC NAMES Spell out the 
full generic and specific names on first use: e.g., 
Escherichia coli. Thereafter, the genus name 
should be abbreviated to the first letter (E. coli). 
If the name appears frequently and may be 
confused with another genus whose first letter is 
the same, spell both names out every four or five 
pages. 

 

INSECTS Use common and scientific names 
approved by the Entomological Society of 
America (http://www.entsoc.org/common-
names) whenever possible. Authors from non–
North American countries may use common 
names current in their countries. In general, do 
not capitalize the first letter of a common name 
unless a proper name is included. 

ABBREVIATIONS AND SYMBOLS 

Use abbreviations and symbols sparingly and 
only if terms are repeated frequently. Define all 
but the obvious standard symbols and 
abbreviations when they first appear in text (a 
list of standard abbreviations and units is 
provided in Appendix B on p. 26). Avoid using 
nonstandard abbreviations in titles and headings. 

Chemical and graphic formulas may be used 
(see next section) and are set in roman type. Use 
U3+ rather than U+++. Atomic weights of isotopes 
are to be indicated by superscripts preceding the 
element symbol: 14C, [14C]urea. 

Use abbreviations of units of measure only when 
preceded by a numeral: 38 mm (but, a few 
millimeters). 

Use the same abbreviations for units of measure 
when singular and plural, without periods or 
apostrophes except in special cases noted in 
Appendix B. Verbs must agree in number with 
the quantity: 1 mm is, 3 mm are.... Use a space 
between the numeral and the unit of measure, 
except with degree, percent, and Svedberg (5°C, 
10%, 6S). 

Spell out genus names upon first usage: The 
name may be abbreviated to its first letter 
afterward when used in combination with the 
species name. Never abbreviate generic names 
when used alone; also, do not abbreviate the 
species name when a subspecies is designated. 
For example, use B. thuringiensis israelensis, 
not B. t. israelensis. 


EQUATIONS AND FORMULAS 

SOFTWARE 

If preparing your manuscript in Microsoft Word, 
you may use either MathType or the Word 
Equation Editor to create your equations. Word 
equations will be converted to MathType as part 
of the manuscript formatting and copyediting 
step. 

LAYOUT 

Equations and formulas should be in complete 
sentence form; include punctuation after 
displayed equations/formulas. 

Set out long equations/formulas on a separate 
line or lines. 

Number displayed equations/formulas if referred 
to later in the text. Use a single sequence of 
Arabic numerals, placed to the right of the 
equation/formula. 

Complicated chemical formulas that cannot be 
typeset on one or two lines must be submitted as 
graphics (see section on figures); assemble these 
at the end of the text, preferably grouped 
together on one page. 

Avoid the vertical placing of side chains. Use 
the following format, indented from the left 
margin: 

CH–C(:CH2)–CH2–CH(CH3)CH2–CH:CH–COOH 

 

 

 

REFERRING TO EQUATIONS 

Refer to all numbered equations as Equation 1, 
Equation 2, etc.; do not use parentheses around 
the number or designators other than “Equation” 
(such as “System 3” or “Problem 1”). 

SPECIAL CHARACTERS 

Use the multiplication ex (×) in numerical and 
vector products only. In all other cases, use the 
multiplication (centered) dot. 

Use the slash to mean “per”; write km/s, not km 
s–1. In arrays, use brackets to indicate a 
determinant and vertical lines for a matrix. 

Observe the following order for brackets: {[()]}; 
do not use parentheses within parentheses. 

Use boldface roman rather than arrows for 
vectors. Use italics for variables, but subscript 
labels that are not themselves variables should 
be in roman. Numerals, symbols for chemical 
elements, and functions such as ln, exp, and cos 
should not be italicized. 

Define uncommon symbols on first use for the 
nonspecialist. 

Distinguish superscripts to superscripts and 
subscripts to subscripts from double superscripts 
and double subscripts (e.g., versus , 
versus ). 
2ae
a2e
3Hn
H3n

Align subscripts with superscripts when 
appropriate to do so. 

 


SUBMITTING YOUR MANUSCRIPT FILES 

ONLINE SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS 

We encourage invited authors to submit their 
manuscripts online. Your Production Editor will 
send you the URL in advance of your 
manuscript due date. 

 

HELPFUL NOTES FOR ONLINE SUBMISSION 

 If possible, please compress each file using, 
for example, WinZip, StuffIt, or GZip 
software. Then upload. 
 Whenever uploading more than five files, 
compress all contents into a single folder and 
then upload. 
 Always include a PDF file of your final 
manuscript, including figures and tables, in 
addition to separate, editable files. 
 If uploading revisions, please again include a 
PDF file of revised text, figures, and/or tables. 


EMAIL AND FTP SUBMISSION 
OPTIONS 

 Files may be attached to an email message and 
sent directly to your Production Editor. 
 Manuscript files must be compatible with 
Microsoft Word’s “.doc(x)” or “.rtf” format. 
Mathematically complex articles may be 
submitted in LaTeX. 
 A PDF of the final submitted version, 
including all figures and tables, must 
accompany all submissions (but does not take 
the place of editable text and figure files). 
 An FTP upload is also an option. Please 
contact your Production Editor for more 
information. 


 

 

 


 APPENDIX A: LITERATURE CITED EXAMPLES 

References appear as follows (note patterns of abbreviation, capitalization, spacing, and punctuation): 

 

ABSTRACT 

Josen LA, Tollis TM, Anthony A. 1993. Finding solutions to sequences. Fed. Proc. 
32(3):855 (Abstr.) 

 

ARTICLE IN A JOURNAL WITH TITLE OF ARTICLE 

Roberts DF. 2001. A demographic study of a Dinka village. Hum. Biol. 28:323-49 

Wilmington SR, Matouschek A. 2016. An inducible system for rapid degradation of 
specific cellular proteins using proteasome adaptors. PLOS ONE 11:e0152679 

 

ARTICLE IN A JOURNAL WITHOUT TITLE OF ARTICLE 

Berson SA, Balow RS. 1999. Am. J. Med. 50:623-29 

[use only for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics, and Nuclear and Particle Science] 

 

ARTICLE IN A JOURNAL IN PRESS 

Park IJK, Wang L, Williams DR, Alegría M. 2017. Coping with racism: moderators of 
the discrimination–adjustment link among Mexican-origin adolescents. Child 
Dev. In press. https://doi.org/10.1111/cdev.12856 

Brown MS, Radhakrishnan A, Goldstein JL. 2018. Retrospective on cholesterol 
homeostasis: the central role of Scap. Annu. Rev. Biochem. 87:In press. 
https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-biochem-062917-011852 

 

ARTICLE IN A JOURNAL WITH AN ERRATUM 

Wilson P. 2001. Title of article. J. Mol. Biol. 229:1175–83. Erratum. 2001. J. Mol. 
Biol. 238:639 

 

BOOK REFERENCE: WHOLE BOOK CITED 

Seaver W. 1995. Luck’s Lady: The Theory of Probability. Garden City, NY: Doubleday 

Bronson D, Gerber RA, eds. 2003. Handbook of Biochemistry, Vols. 1, 2. San 
Francisco: Freeman. 2nd ed. 

Lerner RM, ed. 2003. Handbook of Child Psychology, Vol. 1: Theoretical Models of 
Human Development. New York: Wiley 

 

BOOK REFERENCE: INDIVIDUAL CHAPTER CITED 

Bornstein L. 2002. Recombination in bacteria. In Human Genetics, Vol. 1, ed. R 
Johnston, E Smith, pp. 65-73. London/New York: Macmillan 

New MI, Schram P. 2000. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia. In Current Diagnosis, ed. 
RB Conn, WZ Borer, JW Snyder, pp. 50–75. Philadelphia: Saunders 

 

BULLETIN 

Price GK, Lin W, Falck-Zepeda J. 2003. Distribution of market benefits from 
adopting biotech crops. Tech. Bull. 1906, US Dep. Agric., Washington, DC 


DATABASE 

Natl. Cancer Inst. 2012. Adult primary liver cancer treatment. PDQ: NCI’s 
Comprehensive Cancer Database, Bethesda, MD, updated Feb. 23. 
http://cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/adult-primary-
liver/HealthProfessional 

World Bank. 2012. Little Green Data Book. Washington, DC: World Bank. 
https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/12266 

 

MAGAZINE/NEWSPAPER/RADIO ARTICLE 

Jones A. 2004. Title of article. New York Times, Jan. 15, p. A6 

Ledge J. 1999. Spanish Signs. Atlanta, GA, WABE Radio Broadcast, Mar. 15 

[do not repeat year if year is the same] 

 

NO AUTHOR ASCERTAINABLE 

Begin reference with name of editor, compiler, or sponsoring body, if known. Otherwise begin with title 
of article, chapter, journal, or book, followed by year. Do not use “anonymous.” 

 

PAGE SPAN WITH LETTERS 

11:W50–55 

11:125S–28S 

 

PAPER PRESENTED AT A MEETING OR CONFERENCE 

Andrade RG. 1990. Culture shared and unique. Paper presented at the 69th Annual 
Meeting of the American Anthropological Association, San Diego, Nov. 3–6 

 

PATENT 

Crane P, Lackmeyer G, Longyear J, Melconian A, Steward D. 2006. Electronically 
scanning direction finding antenna system. US Patent 6,987,489 

 

PREPRINT AND WORKING PAPER 

Chiang E, Laughlin G. 2012. The minimum-mass extrasolar nebula. arXiv:1211.1673 
[astro-ph.EP] 

Pasaniuc B, Price AL. 2016. Dissecting the genetics of complex traits using 
summary association statistics. bioRxiv 072934. 
https://doi.org/10.1101/072934 

Chase-Dunn C. 2016. Social movements and collective behavior in premodern polities. 
Work. Pap. 110, Inst. Res. World Syst., Univ. Calif., Riverside. 
http://irows.ucr.edu/papers/irows110/irows110.htm 

 


PROCEEDINGS 

Diftler MA, Mehling JS, Abdallah ME, Radford NA, Bridgwater LB, et al. 2011. 
Robonaut 2—the first humanoid robot in space. In 2011 IEEE International 
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pp. 2178–83. Piscataway, NJ: IEEE 

Holder J. 2009. Galactic binary systems. In Proceedings of the 2009 Fermi 
Symposium, Washington, DC, Nov. 2–5. eConf Proceedings C091122. 
http://www.slac.stanford.edu/econf/C0911022 

 

REPORT 

New RL, Oldur S. 2001. Propulsion jet streams. NASA Tech. Rep. 32-1529, Jet 
Propuls. Lab., Pasadena, CA 

 

SUPPLEMENT 

If suppl. is part of journal title: 

Martin RN, Barrett AH. 2001. Ap. J. Suppl. 36:1-51 

 

If suppl. is not part of journal title: 

Taylor CA. 1995. J. Microbiol. 11(Suppl. 2):5–10 

 

THESIS OR DISSERTATION 

Cafiso DS. 1997. Electrical and ion selective properties of photoreceptor 
membranes. PhD Thesis, Univ. Calif., Berkeley 

[include thesis or dissertation title in journals that do not ask for article titles] 

 

TRANSLATION 

Aachen BL. 1937. Basis of Society. Transl. R Jones, 1958, in Am. J. Sociol. 23:18-
57 (From German) 

 

UNPUBLISHED INFORMATION 

Refer to such data in the text as personal communication, submitted, unpublished data, etc., listing all 
researchers by initials and surname (e.g., W.C. Houser, U.M. Bandlier & C.F. Kim, unpublished data). 
Except for Economics, Financial Economics, Physical Chemistry, and Resource Economics, do not list 
these references in the Literature Cited section. Citations of unpublished works are not permitted in 
Entomology. 

 

WEBSITE 

Taussig M. 2015. Seeds of time. Flatbread Society. 
http://www.flatbreadsociety.net/stories/30/seeds-of-time 

 

YEAR, 1ST EDITION 

Castellanos J. 1994 (1589). [No period before parentheses] 

 

 

 


REPEATED REFERENCES 

If different sections of the same book, symposium, etc. are cited in separate references, give full 
information once, with the reference listed under the editor’s name. Include title of chapter in each 
reference. 

Domb AJ. 2002. Lipospheres for controlled delivery. See Salkman 2002, pp. 288-92 

Salkman B, ed. 2002. Solid Nanoparticles: Methods and Industrial Applications. 
Boca Raton, FL: Taylor & Francis 

Straub EH. 2001. Hemophilia. See Salkman 2002, pp. 216-49 

Do not use “Ibid.” Instead, repeat the name of the author each time. 


APPENDIX B: STANDARD ABBREVIATIONS AND UNITS 

Symbols and abbreviations on this list, as well as all SI base and derived units and prefixes, may be used 
in your manuscript without explanation. 

acceleration of gravity g 

acquired immune deficiency syndrome AIDS 

alternating current ac 

angstrom Å 

ante meridiem AM 

approximately ~ 

approximately equal ≈ 

aqueous aq 

arbitrary unit a.u. 

astronomical unit AU 

atmosphere atm 

atomic mass unit amu 

atomic unit au 

atomic weight at wt 

bar spell out 

barn b 

British thermal unit Btu 

calorie (heat calorie) cal 

centimeter-gram-second cgs 

compare cf. 

cosecant csc 

cosine cos 

cotangent cot 

counts per minute cpm 

curie Ci 

curl spell out 

cycles per second Hz 

daltons Da 

day spell out 

decibel B 

degree ° 

degrees Celsius °C 

degrees Fahrenheit °F 

deuteron d 

dextro D 

diffusion coefficient D 

direct current dc 

dyne dyn 

electromagnetic unit emu 

electromotive force emf 

electron e 

electron spin resonance ESR 

electron volt eV 

electrostatic units esu 

enthalpy change ΔH 

entropy change ΔS 

entropy unit eu 

equilibrium constant K 

equivalent eq 

erg spell out 

et alii (and others) et al. 

et cetera etc. 

exempli gratia (for example) e.g. 

exponential exp. 

figure spell out 

foot ft 

foot candle fc 

gauss G 

Gibbs energy change ΔG (not ΔF) 

giga- G- 

gram calories gcal 

gravitational constant G 

gravity, centrifugal g 

hour h 

human immunodeficiency virus HIV 

hydrogen ion (concentration) pH 

id est (that is) i.e. 

inch spell out 

infective dose ID50 

infrared IR 

international unit IU 

kilo- k- 

kilobase, kilobase pair kb 

kilocycle kc 

kilowatt-hour kWh 

lethal dose LD50 

levo L 

liter L 

logarithm log 

logarithm, natural ln 

magnitude mag 

maximum max 

mega- M- 

metric ton (tonne) t 

Michaelis constant Km 

micro μ- 

microgram μg (not λ) 

micrometer (not micron) μm 

millibar mbar 

milliequivalent meq 

milliliter mL 

millimeters of mercury mm Hg 

million years ago, mega annum Mya, Ma 


minute min 

minutes of arc arcmin 

molar (concentration) M (not μmol/mL) 

mole mol (not M) 

molecular weight Mr or mol wt 

month spell out 

neutron n 

normal (concentration) N 

oersted Oe 

page, pages p., pp. 

parsec pc 

parts per million ppm 

percent % 

post meridiem PM 

potential difference PD 

probable error pe 

proton p 

radiation, ionizing, absorbed dose rad 

radiofrequency RF 

retardation factor RF 

revolutions per minute rpm 

roentgen r 

root mean square rms 

second s 

seconds of arc arcsec 

sedimentation coefficient s 

 

solar mass 
M

species sp., spp. 

Specific rotation α 

square centimeter cm2 

Svedberg (10-13 s) S 

standard deviation SD 

standard error SE 

tangent tan 

tera- T- 

tesla T 

three-dimensional 3D 

ton spell out 

tonne (metric ton) t 

torr torr (not Torr) 

two-dimensional 2D 

ultrahigh frequency UHF 

ultraviolet UV 

universal gravitational constant G 

universal time UT 

variant r. 

versus spell out 

weight concentration g/mL (not mg%) 

weight percent wt% 

week spell out 

year spell out 

 

 

 


