 

GUIDELINES FOR AUTHORS 

2020-ver-04-En 

 

 

 

 

1. GENERAL INFORMATION 

 

“Comunicar”, Media Education Research Journal, is a bilingual publication from Grupo Comu-
nicar Ediciones (VAT: G-21116603). This established non-profit professional group, founded in 
1988 in Spain, specialises in the field of media education. The journal has been in print 
continuously since 1993, and is currently published quarterly. 

Contents are peer reviewed, in accordance with the publication standards established in the 
APA 7.0 (American Psychological Association) manual. Compliance with these requirements 
facilitates indexing in the main databases of international journals in this field, ensuring the 
dissemination of published papers and therefore improves the profile of the authors and their 
centres. 

“Comunicar” is indexed in Journal Citation Reports (WoS-JCR), Scopus (Citescore), REDIB, FECYT 
and over 725 international databases, catalogues, and repertoires worldwide. 

Each issue of the journal comes in a print (ISSN: 1134-3478) and electronic formats (e-ISSN: 
1988-3293) (www.comunicarjournal.com), its interface and abstracts are available in Chinese 
and Portuguese. Each paper is identified with a DOI (Digital Object Identifier System). 

 

 

2. SCOPE AND POLICY 

 

2.1. Subject Matter 

 

Fundamentally, papers related to communication and education, and especially the intersection 
between the two fields: media literacy, educational media and resources, educational 
technology, audiences, new languages, social networks, multimedia and audio-visual tech-
nologies... 

 

2.2. Contributions 

 

“Comunicar” publishes research results related to the convergence between education and 
communication, written in Spanish or English. Also, reports, studies, proposals and selected 
state-of-the-art articles can be sent. 

It is the authors’ responsibility to ensure their submissions are original and have not been 
published previously or are in the process of being published elsewhere. The contributions to 
this journal may be: 


- Research papers: Between 5,000 and 6,700 words of text, including titles, abstracts, 
keywords, tables and references. 

- Reports, Studies, Proposals: Between 5,000 and 6,700 words of text, including titles, 
abstracts, keywords, tables and references. 

- State-of-the-art articles: Between 6,000 and 7,200 words of text (references and tables 
included). An exhaustive review of a recent and current topic in the area under 
discussion is expected. A justified and selective bibliography of about 100 references is 
positively valued. 

“Comunicar” publishes four issues a year (forty articles per year) composed of two sections each, 
with five papers per section: 1) Dossier: monograph section, previously organized, with a call 
for papers, and coordinated by experts in the topics serving as editors. 2) Kaleidoscope: varied 
contributions within the general subject of publication. The Editorial Board will assign the 
manuscript to the appropriate section. 

Authors may submit manuscripts for evaluation at any time, although for entry purposes they 
will be considered as having been received on the last day of each quarter. Monographs are 
closed six months before the publication of the journal. 

 

 

3. EDITORIAL PROCESS 

 

“Comunicar” confirms the receipt of all articles submitted by the authors and keeps them 
informed by e-mail and on the platform of the admission/dismissal and acceptance/rejection 
process, as well as the editing process, in the event of acceptance. The webpage 
www.comunicarjournal.com (Submission Guidelines section) also provides full guidelines for 
publication, checklist protocol for submission, manuscript structure protocol, cover letter, 
manuscript submission online system, and external review protocol… 

About 30 days from the manuscript’s receipt date, the authors will be sent official notification 
of reception and whether the document has passed the preliminary stage of acceptance for 
assessment by our reviewers. In case the manuscript presents format deficiencies or is not 
included in the thematic focus of the publication, the Editorial Board will dismiss the manuscript, 
without a re-submission option. No subsequent correspondence with authors of dismissed 
manuscripts will be maintained. However, if the manuscript’s deficiencies are superficial, it will 
be returned to the author for correction before the assessment process begins. The official 
admission date of the manuscript is the date when this corrected version is received. We 
strongly recommend the authors run an automatic spell check on the document before 
returning the document to us. 

Manuscripts will be reviewed scientifically, anonymously, by five experts (on average) in the 
field. In view of these external evaluations (see external review protocol annex), a decision will 
be made as to whether to accept or reject the articles for publication, as well as the possible 
introduction of stylistic changes and/or the need to trim texts that exceed the maximum length 
permitted, always respecting the original content. In order to offset the conflicting judgments 
between reviewers, “Comunicar” uses review by multiple reviewers. Once the Editorial Board 
has completed all the admission procedures, the maximum scientific evaluation period for 


submissions is 90 days. The average length of time for a scientific review is 50 days and 50 days 
for final acceptance. For manuscripts submitted to specific calls, the beginning of the peer-
review process will be the call’s deadline. 

Papers that are evaluated positively, requiring modifications (both minor and major), will be 
returned within 15 days at the latest. 

All the authors will receive anonymous scientific evaluation reports so the relevant 
improvements or responses can be made. 

The authors of accepted articles will receive the printing proofs for correction by e-mail in PDF 
format before final publication. The proofread, corrected versions must be returned within 
three days of their receipt. Only very minor corrections can be made regarding the content of 
the previously evaluated original manuscript. 

Once the manuscript has been definitely accepted, the final version for publication must be 
returned with all proposed changes in English or Spanish (according to the original version) for 
the bilingual edition of “Comunicar”, in order to guarantee the international readership and 
diffusion. The translated text must meet the highest professional standards. 

Before an issue is published, the papers will be given their own DOI in the “Articles in Press” 
section in the website of the journal. 

In general, once the external scientific reports have been read, the criteria that justify the 
editors’ decision to accept or reject submissions by Editorial Board are as follows: 

a) Current and new. 

b) Relevance and significance: advancement of scientific knowledge 

c) Originality. 

d) Reliability and scientific validity: verified methodological quality. 

f) Organisation (logical coherence and formal presentation). 

g) External support and public/private funding. 

h) Co-authorship and degree of internationalization of the proposal and equipment. 

i) Presentation: good written style. 

Authors can access their publication online, both in the preprint version and in its final version. 
It is recommended that the authors commit to purchasing printed copies for free distribution 
among colleagues and institutions, for the support of the editorial project. This is prescriptive in 
the case of authors having external funding support. 

Authors will accept to be members of the International Reviewers Board for three years, once 
their manuscript has been published. 

 

4. PRESENTATION AND STRUCTURE OF ORIGINAL PAPERS 

 

Manuscripts must be sent exclusively through OJS 3 (Open Journal System) 
(http://bit.ly/2EvrWGZ). All the authors of a manuscript must register with their credits into the 
OJS platform, although only one will be the responsible for correspondence. No author can 


submit two manuscripts simultaneously, and there should be an interval of four issues between 
authors’ published article and next submission of a new one. 

Manuscripts must be submitted in Arial font, size 10, single spacing, fully justified and with no 
tabulations or carriage returns between paragraphs. Only the major blocks of text should be 
separated by carriage returns (author, titles, abstracts, keywords, credits and sections). The 
page should have 2 cm margins (lateral and vertical). Submissions must be in Word format for 
PC. The file has to be made anonymous in the File Properties so the author's identification is not 
possible. 

These publication guidelines are based on APA 7.0 standards: http://bit.ly/2JkuWs8 

 

4.1. Structure 

 

The following two files must be sent together: 1) Cover letter (see official model); 2) Manuscript, 
strictly following the template found in the Guidelines section of the official website: 
https://bit.ly/3fpLoWD. 

 

a) COVER LETTER 

 

These files, signed by the author(s), include: 

• Full name and surname of each author in order of priority (the number should be 
justified by the subject, its complexity and its length, the average for the area being 
three authors). In the case of more than three authors, it is prescriptive to justify 
substantially the original contribution of the team, since it will be taken into account in 
the estimation of the manuscript. The names must be followed by the professional 
category, centre of work, e-mail address of each author and ORCID and Google Scholar. 
It is compulsory to indicate if the academic degree of doctor is held (include Dr. in front 
of the name). The academic signature (name) must be standardized in accordance with 
international conventions to facilitate identification in the main databases 
(https://bit.ly/2SY226c). It is mandatory to register in the International Registry of 
Researchers (ORCID) (http://orcid.org). 

Also included is a statement by: 

 An original contribution. 
 Funding statement. 
 The manuscript has not been sent simultaneously to other journals. 
 Confirmation of authorship. 
 Acceptance, if applicable, and formal changes to the manuscript in accordance with 
the rules of publication. 
 Transfer of rights to the editor. 


 

 

 


b) MANUSCRIPT 

 

This file must contain: 

• Title of the article (concise but informative), in Spanish on the first line and then in 
English, containing as many significant terms as possible. A maximum of two lines will 
be accepted (max. 80 characters including spaces). The titles are not only the 
responsibility of the authors but also the editors. If they are not worded correctly, the 
meaning of the work could be modified. 

• Full name and surname(s) of each of the authors in order of priority (the number of 
authors of a contribution must be justified by the subject, its complexity and its 
extension. The average number of authors in this field is three. If there are more than 
three authors, their specific contributions must be clearly indicated), followed by their 
academic position, their academic centre and their e-mail addresses. If an author 
possesses the academic qualification of doctor this must be indicated (by including the 
title Dr before the name). The signature format must adhere to the international 
database regulations for the indexing of authors and web pages (https://bit.ly/2AHS2Fb). 
It is prescriptive to register in Open Researcher and Contributor ID (ORCID) 
(http://orcid.org). 

• Abstract in English: 200/210 words. The use of automatic translators is not allowed 
for its preparation, as it is for the title and keywords, due to their poor quality. The eva-
luators also assess this aspect of the paper and our reviewers analyse linguistic 
standards and style if necessary. 

• Abstract in Spanish: 220/230 words, providing a concise description of the motive and 
purpose of the research project, the methodology used, the key findings and main 
conclusions, following the structure: justification of the subject, goals, study metho-
dology, results and conclusions. It should be written in an impersonal style. 

• Keywords in English / Keywords in Spanish (6 terms). Comunicar has available a 
Thesaurus in Spanish of the most-commonly used simple keywords in topics covered by 
the journal. We recommend incorporating these standard keywords in the manuscript, 
as well as consulting the UNESCO Thesaurus (https://bit.ly/2zmdn5g). New terms are 
accepted only occasionally. Our Thesaurus can be consulted (www.comunicarjournal.com). 
All terms used must be in standard scientific English. 

 

Research papers should rigorously adhere to the following structure, although the sections 
“Notes” and “Sources of funding” are optional. Reports, Proposals, Studies and State-of-the-Art 
articles can also be more flexible in sections 2, 3 and 4. The section “References” is compulsory 
in all submissions. 

 

1. Introduction: This section must reflect the foundations and purpose of the study, using the 
most relevant citations. Data or conclusions of the work will not be included here. 

2. Material and methods: This section should be presented with the precision deemed 
necessary for the reader to understand and confirm the development of the research. If 


required, the sample and sampling methods should be described, and reference made to the 
type of statistical analysis employed. If the methodology is original, reasons must be provided 
to justify this usage and its possible limitations described. 

3. Results: The most important observations should be highlighted, describing findings made 
with the material and methods used but without interpreting them or making value judgements. 
Essential tables and figures should appear in a logical sequence in the text, avoiding redundancy 
and reiteration of data. 

4. Discussion and conclusion: This section should summarise the findings, relating the 
observations made in this respect with other relevant studies, specifying contributions and 
limitations, without reiterating data discussed previously in other sections. Inferences from the 
findings should be mentioned along with their constraints, including deductions for future 
research, and the conclusions should be linked with the study aims, avoiding gratuitous 
statements and conclusions not supported fully by the research data. 

Notes. These are considered exceptional and should always go at the end of the article (before 
the references). They should be included manually, since the automatic process used by Word 
is not recognised by publishing layout systems. The numbers corresponding to the endnotes 
should be inserted in superscript into the main body of the text and by the endnote itself. In the 
text, they should go before the full stop or closing comma. Notes must not include simple 
bibliographic citations (without comments), since these should be included in the references 
section. 

Funding Agency: The Council of Science Editors advises authors to provide a financial support 
statement for the research project. 

Research studies that are backed by competitive national and international projects will be 
considered a priority. In any case, this section, which is very important for the scientific 
assessment of the manuscript, should be made anonymous with XXX for its initial evaluation, so 
that the authors and research groups are not identified. These, however, should be clearly 
stated on the Cover letter, and later on the final manuscript. 

References: Bibliographic citations must be included as references to the text. The bibliography 
should not include any references not cited in the text. The number of references must be 
sufficient and necessary for contextualizing the theoretical framework, the methodology used 
and the results of research in an international research context. These are to be presented 
alphabetically by the author’s first surname (adding the second surname only when the first 
surname is very common and attached with a hyphen). Bibliographic citations must be taken 
from the original documents –preferably journals and, to a lesser extent, books– always 
indicating the initial and final page of the article or work from which they have been taken, 
except for complete works. 

Given the importance for indexing purposes of citations and calculations of impact factors, 
correct citation will be assessed in accordance with the APA style 7th edition, valuing the 
inclusion not only of national but also international references from prestigious international 
journals (http://bit.ly/2JkuWs8). 

 


4.2. Guidelines for References 

 

PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS 

 Journal article (one author): Aguaded, I. (2014). Research as a Strategy for Training 
Educommunicators: Master and Doctorate [La investigación como estrategia de formación de 
los educomunicadores: Máster y Doctorado]. Comunicar, 43, 07-08. https://doi.org/10.3916/C43-
2014-a1 
 Journal article (up to twenty authors): Vanderhoven, E., Schellens, T., & Valcke, M. (2014). 
Educating Teens about the Risks on Social Network Sites. An intervention Study in Secondary 
Education [Enseñar a los adolescentes los riesgos de las redes sociales: una propuesta de 
intervención en Secundaria]. Comunicar, 43, 123-132. https://doi.org/10.3916/C43-2014-12 
 Journal article (more than twenty authors): Miller, T.C., Brown, M.J., Wilson, G.L., Evans, B.B., 
Kelly, R.S., Turner, S.T., Lewis, F., Lee, L.H., Cox, G., Harris, H.L., Martin, P., Gonzalez, W.L., 
Hughes, W., Carter, D., Campbell, C., Baker, A.B., Flores, T., Gray, W. E., Green, G., … Nelson, T. 
P. (2018). Altruism on American television: Examining the amount of, and context surron-ding. 
Acts of Helping and Sharing. Journal of Communication, 56(4), 707-727. 
https://doi.org/10.1000/45jd_example 
 Journal article (without DOI): Gabelas, J.A. (2007). A view of media education in Spain [Una 
perspectiva de la educación en medios para la comunicación en España]. Comunicar, 28, 69-73. 
https://bit.ly/2LkWBMB 


Note 1: Articles belonging to bilingual journals should be referenced in English and Spanish. 

Note 2: References should follow the English international standard and no special characters should be in 
surnames. 

Note 3: In the final references in English, all tonic words, except connectors, are capitalized. 

 

BOOKS AND BOOK CHAPTERS 

 Entire books: Castells, M. (2001). The Internet Galaxy. Oxford University Press. 
 Chapters: De-Benito, B., & Salinas, J. (2002). Webtools: Aplicaciones para sistemas virtuales de 
formación. In I. Aguaded, & J. Cabero (Eds.), Educar en la Red. Internet como recurso para la 
educación (pp. 175-198). Aljibe. 


 

ELECTRONIC MEDIA 

For electronic media citation in references, please check APA Style 7: http://bit.ly/2JkuWs8. 
Example citation for a Tweet: 

 Revista Comunicar [@Rev_comunicar] (2017, July 17). #Laboratorios sociales, un nuevo 
fenómeno social que se encuentra en plena explosión de posibilidades [Image attached] 
[Tweet]. Twitter. http://bit.ly/labinv 


Example citation for a Twitter profile: 

 Revista Comunicar [@Rev_comunicar] (n.d.). #Laboratorios sociales, un nuevo fenómeno 
social que se encuentra en plena explosión de posibilidades [Twitter profile]. Twitter. 
November 1, 2019. http://bit.ly/labinv 


 

 


DISSERTATIONS AND THESES 

 Doctoral dissertation/Master’s thesis: Harris, L. (2014). Instructional leadership perception and 
practice of elementary school leaders [Doctoral dissertation, University of Virginia]. ProQuest 
Dissertations and Theses Global. https://bit.ly/thesisexample 
 Unpublished doctoral dissertation/Master’s thesis: Harris, L. (2014). Instructional leadership 
perception and practice of elementary school leaders [Unpublished doctoral dissertation]. 
University of Virginia. 


 

It is prescriptive that the DOI (Digital Object Identifier System) of cited articles are shown in the 
references (https://search.crossref.org/). Also all journals and books that don´t have DOI, must 
have their link (in their online version, if they have it). 

All web urls submitted must appear shortened in the manuscript by using https://bitly.com/, 
although DOIs need to stay in their original format. 

“Comunicar” has a library of 1,830 published articles. The review of this literature is an obligation 
in order to maintain the scientific coherence in the editorial line but self-citations by the author 
and to this journal are to be limited and strictly controlled. A full literature review is also 
expected, focusing on those scientific works with wide international dissemination. We 
recommend that authors consult the journals that appear in JCR, Scopus, ERIH, REDIB, Dialnet 
Metrics and Fecyt. As for the number of citations, this will depend on the nature of work 
(thematic area, approach...). As an example, the average number of references in JCR 2016 is 45 
in the areas of Communication and Education. 

 

4.3. Other annotations 

 

Headings in the main body of the article should be numbered using the Arabic numeral system. 
They should not include capital letters, underlined or bold words. Numbering must have a 
maximum of three levels: 1. / 1.1. / 1.1.1. At the end of each numbered heading, a line break 
should be entered. 

No text should be underlined. Furthermore, block capitals should not be used, with the 
exception of initials and acronyms. Foreign words and article titles should be inserted between 
quotation marks in the English version (“ ”). (Typographical quotation marks should be used in 
the Spanish version, “ ”). To facilitate this process, the find/search function of the word 
processor could be used. Book titles should be written in italics in the references, and between 
quotation marks in the main body of the text. No term should be written in italics, use only 
quotation marks if necessary. 

Reference citations must be correct; incorrect citations are unacceptable. As a general rule, 
according to the APA style, the author should be cited in the main body of the text and the year 
in brackets, followed by a comma and space, and then the page number or numbers preceded 
by a colon, separated in turn with a dash. If the author is not cited in the main body of the text, 
he or she should be included in brackets, before the year, followed by a comma and space. It is 
recommended to see samples in the published articles. After reviewing the results, the use of 
reference managers such as RefWorks, EnddNote or Mendeley is highly recommended. 


Bibliographic citation, both the discursive thread and the references must comply with standar-
dised consistent criteria. This aspect is crucial in a scientific journal. Incoherence and deviation 
from the established rules are not accepted. Particular attention must be paid to the 
punctuation system: commas, full stops, semi colons, colons. 

Check the text using Word’s spell-check function, although many erroneous terms are not 
detected, certain problems are resolved automatically. To avoid the common error of including 
two or three spaces between words, use the find/replace tool to search for double spaces and 
replace them with a single space. 

Tables must be included in the main body of the text in Word format in order of appearance, 
numbered using Arabic numerals. They will be used to clarify important points and will not be 
longer than one vertical page. 

Figures, such as photographs, images, graphs and illustrations must provide significant 
clarifications and must not exceed the number of six per article between tables and graphs. They 
should be inserted in the main body of the text, in order of appearance, numbered in Arabic 
numerals and captioned with a concise description of their content. The text shall have print 
quality, and shall be presented in .PNG format, as well as a separate file in an editable (modifiable) 
format. The originality in the graphic representation of research results will be taken into account. 
It is recommended to use online programs: awGraph ((https://bit.ly/2SBkSOC), Plotly 
(https://bit.ly/2SEVHKY), ChartGo (https://bit.ly/2qoRG0k); Online Chart Tool 
(https://bit.ly/2zpjA0g), etc. or similar programs with 3D graphs. 

Abbreviations, only universally accepted standard abbreviations may be used (See Units 
Symbols and Abbreviations). When shortening a term used frequently in the text, the 
corresponding abbreviation must be included in brackets following the first appearance of the 
term. Roman numerals must not be used in the text. For decimal numbers, a decimal point 
should be used to the right of the zero and not a comma. 

Supplementary material. Many articles require supplementary materials such as annexed 
material and/or attached documents: visual, audiovisual, statistical, extensive tables and 
complex colour graphics among others, due to format and size, they cannot be inserted in the 
articles. In “Comunicar”, these documents will accompany the manuscript as extra files, and 
once accepted, the author will publish them online, in its prescriptive form, using the Figshare 
(http:figshare.com) platform. The citation of this material will be inserted in the manuscript. This 
web also offers a free complementary DOI. 

 

 

5. CHARGES 

 

“Comunicar” is an Open Access scientific journal that offers its whole production online for the 
entire scientific community. Likewise, it does not establish any economic charge during the 
complete editorial process for the publication of the articles, including the scientific review and 
layout. 


In the case of funded research or work that has institutional support, it is compulsory to 
collaborate in the promotion of the Journal, by acquiring a minimum number of 15-30 issues for 
free distribution, depending on numbers of authors, for free distribution, without economic 
purposes or commercial distribution. “Comunicar” will register these entities in the International 
registry FundRef (CrossRef) as well as in the journal’s official website. In the case of non-funded 
research, all authors should also collaborate with the acquisition of printed copies and with the 
online dissemination of their articles. 

 

 

6. ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITIES 

 

Each author must submit a statement of authorship and text originality, the ethical commit-
ments they have agreed to and, if necessary, any conflicts of interest. A statement justifying the 
author’s choice of journal is optional. 

 Unpublished. Previously published material will not be accepted. The authors are 
responsible for obtaining the relevant permission to partially reproduce any material 
(text, tables or figures) from other publications and to cite their origin correctly. 
The opinions expressed in the articles published are the responsibility of the author(s). 
“Comunicar”, as an international partner of CrossRef, uses CrossCheck, an antiplagarism 
web tool, to guarantee that the manuscripts are original (https://bit.ly/2zm2vo1). 
 Authorship. The list of signatory authors must only list the people who have contributed 
intellectually to the development of the work. “Comunicar” refuses any responsibility in 
relation to possible conflicts derived from the authorship of the work published. 
 Informed consent. The authors must specify that the procedures used on expe-
rimentation subjects were performed having previously obtained informed consent. 
 Transfer of copyright ownership. The cover letter must specify the transfer of copyright 
ownership of the manuscript for its publication in “Comunicar”. 


 

 

7. PROMOTION AND DISSEMINATION OF PAPERS 

 

Authors are expected to promote their own manuscripts once published, as well as the journal 
itself. Authors are also expected to participate in the pre-print and post-final edition phases of 
publication via the journal’s social network pages. “Comunicar” has a “Cited by” section that 
gathers citations in JCR, Scopus, GSM and CrossRef. The authors should promote articles using 
their link from the journal’s official website (www.comunicarjournal.com) with the DOI, in order 
to increase reading, citation and the impact of their articles. 

Prior to final publication, it is advisable for authors to file their preprint version on their personal 
and institutional websites, scientific social networks, repositories, bibliographic managers... The 
preprint must include the following statement: "This is the electronic version of an article 
accepted for publication in COMUNICAR [number/year], now available online on the official 
website through its DOI". Once published, the authors must specify: "This is the electronic 


version of an article published in COMUNICAR [number/year]. The final version is available at 
the official website, on the date indicated in the preprint, through its DOI". 

“Comunicar” encourages authors and the scientific community to generate the maximum 
promotion and dissemination of the final version of their work through: 

1) Contact (e-mails) and social networks (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn…). 

2) Institutional repository of their own University and public repositories (Mendeley…). 

3) Scientific social networks (Academia.edu, ResearchGate, Kudos…). 

4) The authors’ own websites or institutional website, blog, etc. 

5) Google Scholar, ORCID, ResearchID, ScopusID, Dimensions, PlumX... 

6) Printed copies purchased directly and sent to experts for further reading and citation if 
necessary. 

For new and future submissions from current “Comunicar” authors, the impact of previous 
published articles will be taken into account. Articles with more citations than the journal’s 
annual average citation number in JCR / Scopus will be preferred. 


