Scope 

 

Historical Materialism (HIMA) is an interdisciplinary journal dedicated to exploring and developing the 
critical and explanatory potential of Marxist theory. The journal started as a project at the London 
School of Economics from 1995 to 1998. The advisory editorial board comprises many leading Marxists, 
including Robert Brenner, Maurice Godelier, Michael Lebowitz, Justin Rosenberg, Ellen Meiksins Wood 
and others. Marxism has manifested itself in the late 1990s from the pages of The Financial Times to new 
work by Fredric Jameson, Terry Eagleton and David Harvey. Unburdened by pre-1989 ideological 
baggage, Historical Materialism stands at the edge of a vibrant intellectual current, publishing a new 
generation of Marxist thinkers and scholars. 


Ethical and Legal Conditions 

 

The publication of a manuscript in a peer-reviewed work is expected to follow standards of ethical 
behavior for all parties involved in the act of publishing: authors, editors, and reviewers. Authors, editors, 
and reviewers should thoroughly acquaint themselves with Brill’s publication ethics, which may be 
downloaded here: brill.com/page/ethics/publication-ethics-cope-compliance. 

 

Online Submission 


 

The Journal now uses online submission only. Authors should submit their manuscript online via the 
Editorial Manager (EM) online submission system at: editorialmanager.com/hima. 

First-time users of EM need to register first. Prior to submission, authors are encouraged to read the 
‘Instructions for Authors’ and the EM instructions available by following the above link and clicking on 
the ‘help’ icon in the top left hand menu on the page. Online submission considerably shortens overall 
publication time. When submitting via the website, you will be guided stepwise through the creation 
and uploading of the various files. 

Please upload source files (.doc, etc.) and not .pdf files. 

For figures, please see below. Any figure files should be uploaded separately, and should have a high 
density of at least 300 dpi at a size suitable for printing. 

The revised document is uploaded the same way as the initial submission. The system automatically 
generates an electronic (PDF) proof, which is then used for reviewing purposes. All correspondence, 
including the editor’s request for revision and final decision, is sent by e-mail. 

 

Double-blinded Peer Review 

HIMA uses a double-blind peer review system, which means that manuscript author(s) do not know who 
the reviewers are, and that reviewers do not know the names of the author(s). When you submit your 
article via Editorial Manager, you will be asked to submit a separate title page which includes the full 


title of the manuscript, the names and complete contact details of all authors, the abstract, keywords, 
and any acknowledgement texts. This page will not be accessible to the referees. All other files 
(manuscript, figures, tables, etc.) should not contain any information concerning author names, 
institutions, etc. The names of these files and the document properties should also be anonymized. 

 

Contact Address 

For any questions or problems relating to your manuscript please contact the Editor at: 
historicalmaterialism@soas.ac.uk. For eventual questions about Editorial Manager, authors can also 
contact the Brill EM Support Department at: em@brill.com. 

 

File Format 

Please submit essays preferably in Word (.doc) and RTF. If they are unavailable, please send the piece in 
another (named) word processor format but include Text and RTF formats if at all possible. 

If you have to provide mathematical proof for your arguments, please do so in an appendix. Otherwise, 
graphs and figures can be inserted in the main text. 

We ask that all authors subscribe to the journal and encourage other individuals and institutions to 
subscribe. 


Submission Requirements 

 

Language 

Manuscripts should be written in British English. Spelling should be consistent throughout. 

This includes -ise/-ising/-isation rather than -ize/-izing/-ization, and double-checking all non-English 
words. (Please note: the word ‘critique’ is used only as a noun, and never as a verb in the journal. The 
same applies to other Americanisms such as ‘to impact’, ‘to protest sthg’, which are strictly forbidden.) 

 

Font 

All articles should be in Arial font, 14 point and double-spaced (Arial, 10 point and single-spaced for 
footnotes). 


Manuscript Structure 

 

Authors should please include your postal address and, where possible, fax number and e-mail address. 

The article should be presented in the following form: 

 

Article Title 

Author name 

Affiliation 


Abstract 

Keywords 

Main text 

References 

Appendix 

 

Abstract and Keywords 

Please include a short abstract of no more than 150 words as well as up to six or seven keywords. 

 

Bibliographical Note 

Also include a brief description of your current institutional affiliation, research interests and recent 
publications for our ‘Notes on Contributors’ section, in case your piece should be accepted. 

 

Section Headings 

We strongly recommend that your essay be broken up into parts, marked by sub-titles (numbered or 
not), which can be further broken up into sub-parts which can be marked by sub-sub-titles. 

Sub-titles should be in bold, ranged left and in sentence case (i.e. only the first letter of the sub-title 
should be capitalised, except for exceptions referred to above). They should be separated from the 
preceding text by two paragraph spaces and from the succeeding text by one paragraph space, e.g.: 

 

 

Towards a definition of the problem 

 

Sub-sub-titles should be in bold italics, ranged left and in sentence case. They should be separated from 
the preceding text by one paragraph space and from the succeeding text by one paragraph space, e.g.: 

 

Young Marx’s relationship to Feuerbach 

 

Abbreviations 

Please avoid abbreviations of the type e.g., i.e., etc., when possible and choose rather constructions of the 
type ‘for example’, ‘for instance’, ‘that is’, ‘namely’, ‘in other words’, ‘and so on’, ‘and so forth’. 

Full points after abbreviations: e.g., ed., pp., cms. and after contractions: yds., edn. except the following: 
Mr, Mrs, Miss, Ms, Dr and St 

 

Acronyms 

Acronyms should be capitalised but should not be separated by dots (unless they appear so in a citation), 
for example: NATO, USA, CPGB. 

 


Bibliography 

A bibliography should be placed at the end of the text containing all sources cited in alphabetical and 
chronological order. Book titles are to be italicised; article titles from journals or edited volumes should 
be placed in ‘single quotation marks’, while the journal/volume from which it is taken should be listed in 
italics. 

To distinguish different series of a journal from each other (for example, with New Left Review), please 
put the series number as a large Roman numeral, followed by the volume and issue number: 

Anderson, Perry 1976, ‘The Antinomies of Antonio Gramsci’, New Left Review, I, 100: 5–78. 

The bibliographical listings of essays from journals (but not from edited volumes) should include volume 
and issue number, as well as page ranges, but without using pp. Please see examples below for exact 
formatting. 

In the bibliography, books cited which are reprints of earlier works should have the original publication 
date included in square brackets after the date of the edition cited. In footnotes, however, only the later 
edition’s date should be given. 

In the bibliography, when citing editions which are taken from a series of collected works, the date given 
should be the date of publication of the particular volume, followed as above in square brackets by the 
date of the original work’s publication. The volume number should be listed. Please see the Engels 
reference below for the exact format of these references. 

If two or more pages are cited, we have pp. x–y. Please note that there is no space between number and 
n-dash. Ranges of pages (or years, or any other series of numbers) are cited as said. Not pp. 65–68, but pp. 
65–8 (not ‘sixty-five to sixty-eight’ but ‘sixty-five to -eight’). Therefore, not pp. 112–3, but pp. 112–13. 

Please use the n-dash, and not the normal dash or the m-dash for page ranges. 

In giving references to a page and those following, 'pp. 56ff.' is the style to be used, rather than ‘p. 56 ff.,’ 
or ‘pp. 56ff,’ or other variants. 

If you are citing a chapter from a book (collectively authored or single-authored) or from an annual 
publication (for example, Socialist Register) there is no need to provide the page range. In the latter case, 
it should be treated as a collectively authored book, with the editors listed in the normal manner. 

 

Anonymous Articles in Newspapers 

Financial Times 2019. 

And, in the bibliography: 

Financial Times 2019, ‘Title of the article’, Month or issue number: Page. 

 

Internet References 

Internet references should appear in the usual form in the footnote (with author name and date) and in 
the bibliography as follows: 

Author name, date, ‘Title of document or article’, available at: <www.urladdress>. 

 


Titles within Titles: 

In article titles, when referring to a book, the latter title should appear in italics, as in: 

‘Rereading Reading Capital’ 

In book titles, when referring to a book title, the latter should appear with single quote marks: 

The New Dialectic and Marx’s ‘Capital’ 

 

Publication Locations 

Publication locations for book references should only include the main place of publication, not all the 
details listed in the book. Thus: 

Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 

And not: 

Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press. 

If the book is published in the United States, the state should only appear when there is a possible 
confusion with a UK town. For example: Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. 

But not in other cases, such as: Atlantic Highlands: Humanities Press. 

For journal references, if a doi number is available, please insert it. 

It will help us enormously and save a great deal of time if you ensure that your references accord in every 
detail with the examples below. For example: no comma between author name and date of publication; 
full stops after the ‘p’ before page numbers, followed by a space before the number; full stops at the ends 
of footnotes and references: no line between items in bibliographies. 

 

References 

Blackbourn, David and Geoff Eley 1984, The Peculiarities of German History: Bourgeois Society and Politics 
in Nineteenth-Century Germany, Oxford: Oxford University Press. 

Bonefeld, Werner and John Holloway (eds.) 1991, Post-Fordism and Social Form: A Marxist Debate on the 
Post-Fordist State, London: Macmillan. 

Brewer, Anthony 1980, Theories of Imperialism: A Critical Survey, London: Routledge. 

Burnham, Peter 1991, ‘Neo-Gramscian Hegemony and the International Order’, Capital and Class, 45: 73–
94. 

Burnham, Peter 1995, ‘Capital, Crisis and the International State System’ in Global Capital, National State 
and Politics of Money, edited by Werner Bonefeld and John Holloway, London: Macmillan. 

Engels, Friedrich 1987 [1878], Anti-Dühring in Marx and Engels Collected Works Volume 25, Moscow: 
Progress Publishers. 

Gill, Stephen 1995, ‘Globalisation, Market Civilisation and Disciplinary Neoliberalism’, Millennium, 24, 3: 
399–423. 

Psychopedis, Kostas 1992, ‘Dialectical Theory: Problems of Reconstruction’, in Open Marxism: Dialectics 
and History, edited by Werner Bonefeld, Richard Gunn et al., London: Pluto Press. 

Vilar, Pierre 1976 [1969], A History of Gold and Money: 1450–1920, London: NLB. 

 


Capitalisation 

Capital letters should generally be avoided with nouns unless they are derived from proper names 
(Marxism, Leninist) or refer to titles (Communist Party, the Bavarian Republic of Workers’ Councils, the 
Nazis). In the case of ‘communist/communism’, socialist/socialism’, ‘social-democratic/social 
democracy’, they should be kept in lower case if they refer to broad movements and currents of thought 
that might include a wide range of parties, institutions and so forth. However, when they refer to specific 
parties (the Italian Socialist Party, Russian Communism, the German Social-Democratic Party, etc.), they 
should be capitalised. 

 

Dates and Figures 

6 September 1972. 

‘Nineteenth century’ (or ‘nineteenth-century’ when used as an adjective). Please avoid ‘19th century’. 

Do not use apostrophes when referring to decades: 1930s , and not 1930’s. 

Numbers from one to nine (and first to ninth) spelt out, from 10 to 999,999 in figures if there is heavy use 
of figures in the text. Otherwise spell out. Then 1 million, 2.7 million, etc. 

Percentages use figures and (two words) per cent, e.g. 8 per cent. When a large number of percentages 
are being used, it is permissible to use the % sign. 

 

Ellipses 

When words are omitted, there is a space, three dots, followed by a space. 

Original: 

Johnson, building on the work of Raymond Aron, provides a neo-Durkheimian view of the 
homogenising effects of international society. This is problematic, and no alternative is considered. 

After Ellipses: 

Johnson … provides a neo-Durkheimian view of … international society. This is problematic and 
no alternative is considered. 

If the words omitted go over the end of a sentence, the following word must be capitalised to point out 
that a new sentence has started. If it is not the words that started the new sentence in the original, a 
capital must be provided in square brackets. Moreover, an extra dot must be added. 

Johnson … provides a neo-Durkheimian view. … This is problematic, and no alternative is 
considered. 

Or: Johnson … provides a neo-Durkheimian view. … [N]o alternative is considered. 

NB: If ‘dot–dot–dot’ is actually used for dramatic effect then it is closed up on the left. 

Whatever they say... 

 

Footnotes 

The journal uses an author/date/page system in footnotes (with fuller references in bibliographies). 


Footnotes should be used both to cite sources and to make any brief comments not deemed appropriate 
for the main text. The only exception to the rule that all quotations are footnoted is in reviews, which are 
discussed below. 

All footnotes should spell out author/date/page in full: op. cit., ibid., loc. cit. and similar are not generally 
used (ibid. is only used when the following reference is exactly the same (author, date and page reference) 
as the previous reference). 

Where a footnote refers to more than one page reference, the style be 'pp. 45, 87' or 'pp. 45, 87, 103, 156'. If 
there are several references to different authors or works with page references, each one should be 
separated by a semi-colon: ‘Burke 1973, p. 13; Andrews 1990, pp. 24, 52 90; Marx 1973, p. 12.’ 

Where a footnote refers to a note, whether in a work cited or a note to the author's present text, the style 
should be 'p. 53, n. 124' rather than ‘p. 53 n. 124' or ‘p. 53, note 124'. 

Footnotes come after any punctuation. 

…as has been argued elsewhere.7 This is the basis… 

Not: 

…as has been argued elsewhere7. This is the basis… 

Footnote examples: 

1 Brewer 1980, p. 88. 

2 Brewer 1980, p. 89. 

3 Blackbourn and Eley 1984, p. 59; compare pp. 77–9. 

4 See Burnham 1991, and 1995. 

5 Vilar 1976, p. 67. 

6 Engels 1987, p. 104. 

 

Quotations 

Quotations of up to two sentences in length should be included in the main text, enclosed within ‘single 
quotation marks’. Quotations over this length should be given a separate paragraph. This paragraph 
should not be italicised, and should be indented with wider margins than the main essay. The paragraph 
should be separated from the main text by a one-line space above and below the quotation. The 
indented paragraph should not be in quotation marks. Quotations within the quotation should be in 
‘single quotes’. 

That Bowden’s partial severing of the unity of theory and praxis complements his material/social 
dichotomy is clear from his response to the following observation by Minton: 

 

In Marx’s terms, it is not labour which is ‘the source of all wealth’. Nature is, he claims, ‘just as 
much the source of use values’, which is the material of wealth. Labour is a manifestation of a 
natural force, after all.32 

 


Bowden’s apparent dismissal of the implicit argument in this quote is quite unsatisfactory and must 
be rejected. 

 

If the main quotation is shorter and is included in the main text within single quotation marks, 
quotations within it should have “double quotation marks”. 

Minton is quite clear that ‘[i]n Marx’s terms, it is not labour which is “the source of all wealth”.’ 
Bowden’s response to this is inadequate. 

If an article contains a quotation the original of which breaks any of our style rules, the original style is 
retained within the quotation. 

 

Punctuation, N-dashes and Hyphenation 

When an abbreviated word comes at the end of a sentence, there is only one full stop. 

... in the European countries, France, Italy, etc. 

Not: ... France, Italy, etc.. 

Use hyphens only for hyphenated words. 

When dashes are used as semi-parentheses, then it is text/space/n-dash/space/text. 

Whatever the notion – and Lacan is unclear on this – we cannot ... 

N–dashes used also for dates when they mean ‘from x date to y date’, the same rules as for page numbers 
(i.e., as it is said). When used in this way, they are closed up. 

1948–9 

Compound nouns are hyphenated in the journal: surplus-value, labour-power, value-form, etc. 

Also hyphenated are compound adjectival constructions, e.g.: classical-Marxist, social-democratic, 
revolutionary-socialist. However, please note that, in the adjective+noun construction, they are not 
hyphenated, e.g.: classical Marxism, social democracy, revolutionary socialism. 


Reviews 


 

Within a review, page references for the book or books being reviewed should not be in footnotes, but 
should be in brackets within the main body of the text after any quotations. The full publication details 
should be listed at the beginning of the review, with the format title/author/place: publisher, year. All 
quotes from any other sources than the book(s) under review should be footnoted, however, and a full 
bibliography should be included as for other articles (see rules above). 

Review title: 

Cuba Libre 

Peter Marshall 

Boston: Faber and Faber, 1987 

Reference: 

... Marshall claims that ‘regular troops were no longer … a pool of labour’ (pp. 83-4). 


Publication 

 

Proofs 

Upon acceptance, a PDF of the article proofs will be sent to the each author/ the designated author by e-
mail to check carefully for factual and typographic errors. Authors are responsible for checking these 
proofs and are strongly urged to make use of the Comment & Markup toolbar to note their corrections 
directly on the proofs. At this stage in the production process only minor corrections are allowed. 
Alterations to the original manuscript at this stage will result in considerable delay in publication and, 
therefore, are not accepted unless charged to the author. Proofs should be returned promptly. 

 

E-offprints 

A PDF file of the article will be supplied free of charge by the publisher to authors for personal use. Brill 
is a RoMEO yellow publisher. The Author retains the right to self-archive the submitted (pre-peer-review) 
version of the article at any time. The submitted version of an article is the author's version that has not 
been peer-reviewed, nor had any value added to it by Brill (such as formatting or copy editing). The 
Author retains the right to self-archive the accepted (peer-reviewed) version after an embargo period of 
12 months. The accepted version means the version which has been accepted for publication and 
contains all revisions made after peer reviewing and copy editing, but has not yet been typeset in the 
publisher’s lay-out. The publisher’s lay-out must not be used in any repository or on any 
website (brill.com/resources/authors/publishing-books-brill/self-archiving-rights). 

 

Consent to P
ublish 


 

Transfer of Copyright 

By submitting a manuscript, the author agrees that the copyright for the article is transferred to the 
publisher if and when the article is accepted for publication. For that purpose the author needs to sign 
the Consent to Publish which will be sent with the first proofs of the manuscript. 

 

Open Access 

Should the author wish to publish the article in Open Access he/she can choose the Brill Open option. 
This allows for non-exclusive Open Access publication under a Creative Commons license in exchange 
for an Article Publication Charge (APC), upon signing a special Brill Open Consent to Publish Form. 

More information on Brill Open can be found on brill.com/brillopen. 


