 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Instructions to Authors 

 

Journal of Media Psychology 

 

Theories, Methods, and Applications 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hogrefe Publishing GmbH 

Merkelstr. 3 

37085 Göttingen 

Germany 

Tel. +49 551 999 50 0 

Fax +49 551 999 50 111 

publishing@hogrefe.com 

www.hogrefe.com 



 


Journal of Media Psychology (JMP) is committed to publishing original, high-quality papers 
which cover the broad range of media psychological research. This peer-reviewed journal 
focuses on how human beings select, use, and experience various media as well as how media 
(use) can affect their cognitions, emotions, and behaviors. Submissions must substantially 
advance the current state-of the art on a theoretical and/or an empirical level. To name just a 
few typical fields and domains of inquiry, the Journal of Media Psychology considers 
manuscripts dealing with research on entertainment, computer-mediated communication 
(including social media), human-computer interaction, e-learning, computer and video 
games, virtual environments, or advertising. The journal is also open to research from 
neighboring disciplines as far as this work ties in with psychological concepts of the uses and 
effects of the media. Submissions of comparative work, e.g., cross-media, cross-gender, or 
cross-cultural, are encouraged. Moreover, submissions including alternative analysis 
procedures such as the Bayesian approach are welcome. The pre-registration of research 
plans will also be possible. To ensure short turn-around cycles for manuscript review and fast 
publication, the Journal of Media Psychology relies heavily upon electronic communication 
and information exchange, starting from electronic submission and continuing throughout 
the entire review and production process. 

 

Journal of Media Psychology publishes the following types of 
articles 

Original Research Papers, regardless of methodology, may contain up to 8,000 words, 
including abstract, text, references, notes, appendices, as well as figures and tables. An 
allowance for any tables and figures should be deducted from the above depending on 
their size (approximately 200 words per quarter print page). 

Theoretical Articles provide state-of-the-art overviews of research in pertinent areas, or 
presentations of innovative theories and models for media psychology; they may also 
focus on methodological issues relevant for the discipline. The specifications are the same 
as for original research papers. 

Research Reports will typically focus on methods, such as the development of a new 
questionnaire, or they may feature smaller empirical studies. Research reports may 
contain up to 4,000 words, again including abstract, text, references, notes, appendices, 
and an allowance for any tables and figures depending on their size (approximately 200 
words per quarter print page). 

Pre-Registered Reports: As an alternative to the other submission categories, authors have 
the opportunity to ‘‘register’’ a research idea before data are collected. For this purpose, 
authors are called to submit a proposal for a scientific question (with a maximum of 6,000 
words; including abstract, text, references, notes, appendices, as well as figures and 
tables), elaborating on the theoretical background, hypotheses, a detailed methodological 
and a complete analysis plan (including exclusion criteria, e.g., procedures for defining 
outliers). In the methodological section, planned sample sizes should be calculated based 


on power analyses. Moreover, authors are allowed to report results from pre-tests that 
were already conducted. Please submit any stimulus material, questionnaires and/or 
codebooks you wish to use in your research. Note that this is supplementary material, not 
being part of the proposal with a maximum of 6,000 words. 

In a first round of review, the proposal will be judged by its theoretical contribution, 
plausibility of hypotheses, and soundness of the methodological and analysis plan. If it is 
evaluated positively in this round, the study receives an ‘‘in principle’’ acceptance 
(potentially with recommendations by editor and reviewers). Subsequently, within 6 
months, authors are asked to conduct the pre-registered study. Data files should be 
appropriately time stamped to show that data was collected after the in-principle 
acceptance and not before. Any deviation from the stated methodological procedures, 
regardless of how minor it may seem to the authors, may lead to summary rejection of the 
manuscript (in cases of unforeseen circumstances authors may consult the corresponding 
editor for advice). 

After completion of the study, authors submit the second part of their work (containing an 
additional maximum of 2,000 words) presenting and discussing their results. After this 
step, the manuscript (with a total of 8,000 words including abstract, text, references, 
notes, appendices, and an allowance for any tables and figures depending on their size) 
will be published regardless of whether the initial hypotheses are supported by the data or 
not. However, the second part will also undergo a review round in order to evaluate 
whether the results and discussion sections meet the standards of the journal. 

Please consider that also this second review round may result in a major revision of the 
empirical part of the paper. For this category of submission, please consider that the 
hypotheses and methods that were proposed initially have to be reported in the final 
article. Statistical post-hoc analyses that go beyond the first plan are possible, but should 
be explained in a detailed letter to the editor and reviewers when submitting the second 
part of the manuscript. 

 

Manuscript Submission 

All manuscripts should be submitted online at http://www.editorialmanager.com/jmp. 

Please follow the online instructions for submission. Should you have any technical queries 
regarding this process, please contact Juliane Munson, Hogrefe Publishing (E-mail 
production@hogrefe.com, Tel. +49 551 99950-422, Fax +49 551 99950-425). 

Please direct any editorial questions to the editorial office: 

E-mail jmp@ijk.hmtm-hannover.de. 

 


Review Process 

All manuscripts are subject to anonymous peer review. An editorial decision on research 
papers will be made within 8 weeks. Based on the title and abstract, two or more reviewers 
will be requested to review the manuscript. Reviewers will be asked to complete their review 
within 4 weeks. The editor responsible for the manuscript makes his or her editorial decision 
and notifies the corresponding author of the result, usually within 2 working days after 
receiving the reviewers’ feedback. For original research papers, theoretical articles, and 
research reports, there are three kinds of decisions: accept, revise and resubmit (with either 
major or minor revisions), and reject. Rejected manuscripts can be resubmitted after 
substantial revision, but they will be treated as new manuscripts. The entire review process is 
completely reliant on electronic communication in order to ensure speedy processing. 

 

Manuscript Preparation 

Manuscripts should be prepared in accordance with conventions listed in the Publication 
Manual of the American Psychological Association (6th ed.). 

The first page should contain the title of the article, names of authors and affiliation(s), a 
running title, and an address for correspondence, including telephone and fax numbers and 
e-mail address. The second page should contain an abstract (not exceeding 250 words) which 
should be intelligible without recourse to the main text, and up to 5 keywords. 

The rest of the manuscript should then follow in the order: 

Introduction, Methods, Results, Discussion, Research Transparency Statement, References, 
Tables, Figures, and Legends. 

 

Tables should be numbered using Arabic numerals and be given a brief descriptive title. 
Tables must be cited in the text (e.g., ‘‘As shown in Table 1, ...’’). It is recommended that each 
table should also include a brief explanatory legend. 

Figures should be numbered using Arabic numerals and be given a brief descriptive title 
and an explanatory legend, if required. Figures must be cited in the text. Care should be 
taken to ensure that lettering and detail will be legible after any size reduction necessary for 
publication. Figures must be supplied in a form suitable for reproduction: preferably high 
resolution bitmaps (e.g., jpg, 300 dpi). If these are not submitted together with the 
manuscript, they need to be supplied upon its acceptance. 

Electronic Supplementary Materials: The Electronic Supplementary Material (ESM) 
will not be printed and is not included in the word count. Please follow the instructions 
below. 

References: Authors are responsible for checking the accuracy of all references. Reference 
citations in the text and in the reference list proper should conform to the APA Manual. All 
references listed have to be cited in the text. In the reference list make sure to provide the 
DOIs (Digital Object Identifier) of the cited journal articles. 


Manuscript Format and Style 

Manuscripts should be prepared according to the Publication Manual of the American 
Psychological Association (7th ed.). In particular, statistical and mathematical copy, 
reference citations in the text and the reference list proper should conform to the Publication 
Manual. 

 

Each submission must include the following: 

(a) a main document including the manuscript which is subject to anonymous peer review. 
Please make sure that all references to author names and affiliations have been removed 
from the manuscript and related documents (and the properties of the documents). 

Please check that all identifying information has been removed from your electronic files, 
for example, documents prepared using Microsoft™ Word®. Personal or hidden 
information is stored in File Properties (e.g., Author, Manager, Company, and Last Saved 
By; hidden information includes hidden text, revised text, comments, or field codes). 
These may be in a document even when they are not openly displayed. You must edit or 
remove the custom field to remove that information. Go to the File menu, select info, and 
then click check for issues. Select inspect document. In the Document Inspector 
dialog box, select the check boxes to choose the types of hidden content that you want to 
be inspected. Select remove all. Click Close and save the document. 

Please submit this document as ‘‘manuscript’’; 

(b) a title page including names and affiliations of all authors and indicating the 
corresponding author by giving his/her name and complete address, including email and 
telephone and fax number(s). 

(c) an abstract (maximum length 250 words) and a maximum of 5 key reference terms. 

Figures and tables (if any) should be numbered using Arabic numerals. 

The number of figures and tables should be kept to a minimum and only be included to 
facilitate understanding of the text. The same information should not appear in both a figure 
and a table. Each table and figure must be cited in the text and should be accompanied by a 
legend on a separate sheet. Please note that online submission via the Editorial Manager 
allows text, figures, and tables to be submitted as separate files. Figures must be supplied in a 
form suitable for reproduction: preferably high resolution bitmaps (e.g., jpg, 300 dpi) or as 
vector graphics files. Figures will normally be reproduced in black and white only. While it is 
possible to reproduce color illustrations, authors are reminded that they will be invoiced for 
the extra costs involved. After acceptance, authors will be asked to upload a brief biography 
(up to 50 words) and a photo of each author. 

 


Guidelines for Transparency and Openness Promotion 

Please consider the following guidelines when preparing your manuscript. 

Citation standards. All data, program code and other methods used in the submitted 
research should be appropriately cited. Such materials should be recognized as original 
intellectual contributions and afforded recognition through citation. 

a. All data sets and program code used in a publication should be cited in the text and listed 
in the reference section. 

b. References for data sets and program code should include a persistent identifier, such as a 
Digital Object Identifier (DOI). Persistent identifiers ensure future access to unique 
published digital objects, such as a text or data set. Persistent identifiers are assigned to 
data sets by digital archives. Authors are offered the opportunity to publish their data and 
materials (i.e., stimuli and surveys) as Electronic Supplementary Material on the 
publisher’s website at https://econtent@hogrefe.com 

c. Data set citation example: 

Campbell, Angus, and Robert L. Kahn. American National Election Study, 1948. 
ICPSR07218-v3. Ann Arbor, MI: Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social 
Research [distributor], 1999. http://doi.org/10.3886/ICPSR07218.v3 

 

Data, Analytic Methods (Code), and Research Materials Transparency. Journal of 
Media Psychology publishes papers where authors indicate whether the data, methods used 
in the analysis, and materials used to conduct the research will be made available to any 
researcher for purposes of reproducing the results or replicating the procedure. In line with 
the Peer Reviewers’ Openness Initiative, authors may be asked by reviewers to share their 
data and materials at any stage of the reviewing process. 

As a part of the manuscript, authors must include a Research Transparency Statement, 
indicating if they will or will not make their data, analytic methods, and study materials 
available to other researchers. Authors may use the following statement: 

“The authors are willing/not willing to share their data, analytics methods, and study 
materials with other researchers. The material will be available [at a repository / upon 
request].” 

This transparency statement will not influence the editorial decision. 

 

Design and Analysis Transparency. Journal of Media Psychology publishes papers in 
which authors follow standards for disclosing key aspects of the research design and data 
analysis. Authors are encouraged to review the standards available for many research 
applications from http://www.equator-network.org/ and use those that are relevant for the 
reported research applications. 

 

Preregistration of Studies and Analysis Plans. The policy of the Journal of 
Media Psychology is to publish papers where authors indicate whether or not the 


conducted research was preregistered with an analysis plan in an independent, 
institutional registry (e.g., http://clinicaltrials.gov/, http://socialscienceregistry.org/, 
http://openscienceframework.org/, http://ridie.3ieimpact.org/; http://egap.org/design-
registration/). Even if authors do not use the preregistration offer of JMP as described below, 
they need to acknowledge whether they opted for a pre-registration of the study at another 
independent institution. Preregistration of studies involves registering the study design, 
variables, and treatment conditions. Including an analysis plan involves specification of 
sequence of analyses or the statistical model that will be reported. 

1. Authors must, in acknowledgments or the first footnote, indicate if they did or did not 
preregister the research with or without an analysis plan in an independent, institutional 
registry. Please add a Preregistration Statement to your manuscript, indicating: “The 
authors have/have not preregistered this research with/without an analysis plan which is 
retrievable at: URL.” 

2. If authors preregistered the research with an analysis plan, the author must: 

a. confirm in the text that the study was registered prior to conducting the research with links 
to the time-stamped preregistration(s) at the institutional registry, and that the 
preregistration adheres to the disclosure requirements of the institutional registry or those 
required for the preregistered badge with analysis plans maintained by the Center for 
Open Science. 

b. report all preregistered analyses in the text, or, if there were changes in the analysis plan 
following preregistration, those changes must be disclosed with explanation for the 
changes. 

c. clearly distinguish in text analyses that were preregistered from those that were not, such 
as having separate sections in the results for confirmatory and exploratory analyses. 

 

Replication. The policy of the Journal of Media Psychology is to encourage submission of 
replication studies, particularly of research published in this journal. 

 

Electronic Supplementary Materials 

Authors may submit study data, analysis scripts, and other study materials for manuscripts 
that involve new data as Electronic Supplementary Materials (ESM). In general, ESM may 
include items that cannot be produced in print form and may consist of material used to 
carry out the research (e.g., data sets, participant instructions, audiovisual stimuli, video 
footage of the experimental setup) or addition items that are not essential for inclusion in the 
full text but would nevertheless benefit the reader. ESM is not included in the word count. 
ESM will be published online as received from the author(s) without any conversion, testing, 
or reformatting. They will not be checked for typographical errors or functionality. The 
responsibility for the content and functionality remains entirely with the author(s). 

Hogrefe Publishing does not provide technical support for the creation or viewing of the 
supplementary files. If necessary, authors should seek the assistance of their local IT 


department. Like the manuscript, ESM should be original and not previously published. If 
previously published, it must be submitted with the necessary permissions. Note that the 
ESM files, just like the article itself, are permanent records and may not be altered once they 
have been published online. 

Please ensure that any ESM submitted with the article is in compliance with the EU 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 

 

Submission 

ESM files will be subjected to peer review along with the article itself. The number of ESM 
files you submit should be limited to 10. The file size should be kept as small as possible, not 
exceeding 10 MB in total. All file formats are accepted with the exception of executable files 
(e.g., .exe, .com, or .msi). Commonly used file formats that are accessible by most readers are 
preferred. Following the online instructions, submit the ESM files in a single zip file separate 
from the other files that are part of your submission. 

 

Citation in Manuscript 

All ESM files must be referred to with intext citations (as for tables, figures, and appendices) 
and should be numbered in the order in which they are cited in the text. 

 

Follow the example: 

– For more information, listen to the audio file in Electronic Supplementary Material 1. 

or: 

– (listen to the audio file in Electronic Supplementary Material 1) 

or: 

–(the audio file is provided in Electronic Supplementary Material 1) 

 

If appropriate, you may combine several ESM elements into a single file. For example: 

– See Tables 1–3 in Electronic Supplementary Material 1. 

 

Include a section headed ‘‘Electronic Supplementary Material’’ at the end of your article 
before the reference section. List all files in the order in which they are cited in the text. 
Provide a title for each ESM file along with the file name. Optionally, you may also provide a 
short description for each file (max. 20 words). Follow the example: 

– ESM 1. Audio file (mp3). (= title and file name) 

This audio file contains utterances of the study participants. (= description of file) 

– ESM 1. Tables 1–3 (xlsx). (= title and file name) 

The tables show additional p-values, weather variables, and demographic characteristics. 
(= description of file) 


Make sure that the file names listed here match the names of the submitted files. Please note 
that only the title and the description will appear in the article; the file name will not. It is for 
reference purposes only. 

 

Proofs 

PDF proofs will be sent to the corresponding author. Changes of content or stylistic changes 
may only be made in exceptional cases in the proofs. Corrections that exceed 5% of the 
typesetting costs may be invoiced to the authors. 

 

Offprints 

The corresponding author of each accepted paper will receive free online access to the 
published version of the paper when it is first released online. The author may download the 
PDF of the published version of record. It is provided for the author’s personal use, including 
for sharing with coauthors (see also ‘‘Guidelines on sharing and use of articles in Hogrefe 
journals’’ on the journal’s web page at www.hogrefe.com/j/jmp). 

 

Copyright Agreement 

By submitting an article, the author confirms and guarantees on behalf of themselves and any 
co-authors that the manuscript has not been submitted or published elsewhere, and that they 
hold all copyright in and titles to the submitted contribution, including any figures, 
photographs, line drawings, plans, maps, sketches, and tables, and that the article and its 
contents do not infringe in any way on the rights of third parties. The author indemnifies and 
holds harmless the publisher from any third-party claims. 

The author agrees, upon acceptance of the article for publication, to transfer to the publisher 
the exclusive right to reproduce and distribute the article and its contents, both physically 
and in nonphysical, electronic, or other form, in the journal to which it has been submitted 
and in other independent publications, with no limitations on the number of copies or on the 
form or the extent of distribution. These rights are transferred for the duration of copyright 
as defined by international law. Furthermore, the author transfers to the publisher the 
following exclusive rights to the article and its contents: 

 

1. The rights to produce advance copies, reprints, or offprints of the article, in full or in part, 
to undertake or allow translations into other languages, to distribute other forms or 
modified versions of the article, and to produce and distribute summaries or abstracts. 

2. The rights to microfilm and microfiche editions or similar, to the use of the article and its 
contents in videotext, teletext, and similar systems, to recordings or reproduction using 
other media, digital or analog, including electronic, magnetic, and optical media, and in 
multimedia form, as well as for public broadcasting in radio, television, or other forms of 
broadcast. 


3. The rights to store the article and its content in electronic form on all media (such as 
computer disks, compact disks, magnetic tape), to store the article and its contents in 
online databases belonging to the publisher or third parties for viewing or downloading by 
third parties, and to present or reproduce the article or its contents on visual display 
screens, monitors, and similar devices, either directly or via data transmission. 

4. The rights to reproduce and distribute the article and its contents by all other means, 
including photo-mechanical and similar processes (such as photocopying or facsimile), 
and as part of so-called document delivery services. 

5. The right to transfer any or all rights mentioned in this agreement, as well as rights 
retained by the relevant copyright clearing centers, including royalty rights to third 
parties. 

 

Online Rights for Journal Articles 

Guidelines on authors’ rights to archive electronic versions of their manuscripts online are 
given in the document ‘‘Guidelines on sharing and use of articles in Hogrefe journals’’ on the 
journal’s web page at www.hogrefe.com/j/jmp. 

June 2020 


