Guidelines for Contributors 

The Journal of Advertising Research’s mission is to be the leading R&D 
vehicle for academics and professionals in advertising and media. 
The JAR provides a forum for sharing findings, applications, new􀀂
technologies, methodologies, and avenues of solution. JAR brings 
together both academic and practitioner communities. This means 
there is an emphasis on publishing papers that achieve advancements 
in theory and improvements in practice. Academic researchers 
submitting to JAR have an unparalleled opportunity for their research 
to directly impact advertising practice and thinking. 

Types of Articles: All papers should contribute to both theory and 

practice. Our goal is to present work that has more enduring value for 
academicians as well as practitioners. Even a strong conceptual article 
which presents a new approach to understanding the industry and its 
ability to function in this explosive growth era may be of benefit if it 

presents a compelling argumentation and logical explanation. Small 

studies on a single execution/category/brand/country can suffer from 

scope. 

Peer-reviewed papers: These advance empirical evidence-based knowledge 
about advertising and media, and have direct implications for 

practice. Case studies are acceptable if they represent a broad set of 
circumstances affecting JAR readers or offer innovation that contributes 
to broadening the field of knowledge. Content analyses or literature 
reviews must make a substantive new contribution over what is 
already known.􀀂

Note: Peer-reviewed papers are submitted through our editorial manager 
online system (See Manuscript Submission, below). Please submit 
short technical notes directly to the managing editor and editorin-
chief. 

Sampling: Authors should clearly articulate the sampling frame and 
relevant details including response rates and tests for non-response 
bias. While samples using students or Amazon’s Mechanical Turk 

(MTurk) are appropriate for pilot studies, use in main studies likely 
will lead to desk rejection. We strongly prefer more generalizable sample 
populations 

Style: JAR papers must be readable, jargon-free, and understood 
by readers with varied backgrounds. Please adhere to the following 

guidelines: 

Length: Submissions should be no more than 7,000 words. Longer 
manuscripts may be sent back to authors for reduction prior to the re


view process. Authors will not be penalized for succinct papers. Web 
appendices will be considered for extensive supporting notes, tables, 
and figures.􀀂

Headlines: Please use short, impactful titles to attract attention—a 

combination of a short title and a subtitle help advertise the most im


portant content and strengthen SEO.􀀂

Clarity and Navigation: Write in an interesting, readable manner􀀂
that is relevant to readers outside your field of expertise. Short simple 
sentences and paragraphs, clear logical flow, and ample use of􀀂
subheadings reduce the reader’s workload by improving readability.􀀂

Background And Literature Reviews: Focus on issues of direct relevance 
only. Avoid tangential issues and repetition. 

Technical terms: Minimize them where possible and, if unavoidable, 
provide definitions.􀀂

Results and Discussion: Break out these sections, so the distinction 
between the findings and their interpretation is obvious.􀀂

Implications for Practice: Frame these as a direct result of the research 
and as actionable for practitioners. 

Sentence Structure, Grammar: Use references to support an argument. 
For example “Black is white (Precourt, 2013)” rather than “Precourt 
(2013) found that black is white.” Minimize the passive voice, 
and avoid first-person narrative (e.g., we/I); refer to yourself as “the 
author” or “the author of the current study.” Pay attention to grammar 
and spelling. Italicize all Latin abbreviations.􀀂

SUBMISSION STRUCTURE 
Editorial Review: Author information can be included in a cover letter, 
including any acknowledgment of financial or technical assistance. 
However, the authors’ names should NOT appear on the title 
page or text of a manuscript as papers are subjected to double-blind 
review. If a submission passes the desk-reject stage, manuscripts are 
passed on to three reviewers (normally including at least one academic 
or one practitioner).􀀂

Abstracts: Each paper should be summarized by an abstract of 100 or 
fewer words and should enable any reader of the JAR to know what 
it is about, plus a 100-word “Management Slant” of 3-5 bullet points 
summarizing findings and business applications.􀀂

Tables/Figures/Artwork: Use tables and figures (limit of 3) only when􀀂
the findings can’t be integrated into the text. Smaller tables (e.g., 2 x 2)􀀂
should be described in the text rather than a separate table. Unnecessary 
supplemental graphics may only be published online. 

Figures/tables should have titles and be numbered consecutively, 

and be placed in the main body of the text. 

Use graphics as information that supports a finding, not as the 
finding itself—i.e., “The sky is falling (See Figure 1).” Do not begin 
sentences with a graphic or a chart as the subject—i.e., “Table 2 shows 
the effect...”.􀀂

Please make use of appendices for useful but not essential detail. 

At the production stage, please provide editable versions of any 

charts. 

References: All references should be included and listed alphabeti


cally by first author’s last name at the end of the paper in the reference 
section. See examples below; please check a recent issue of JAR for 
more: 

Phelps, J. E., R. Lewis, L. Mobilio, D. Perry, and N. Raman. “Viral 
Marketing or Electronic Word-of-Mouth Advertising: Examining 
Consumer Responses and Motivations to Pass Along Email.” Journal 
of Advertising Research 44, 4 (2004): 333–48.􀀂

Hair, J. F., W. C. Black, B. J. Babin, R. E. Anderson, and R. L. Tatham. 
Multivariate Data Analysis, 6th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice 
Hall, 2006.􀀂

Hetter, C. “Implications of New Interactive Technologies for Conceptualizing 
Communication.” In Media Use in the Information Age: Emerging 
Patterns of Adoption and Computer Use, J. L. Salvaggio and J. Bryant, 
eds. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1989.􀀂

In making references to such sources in the text, use authors’ last 

names and date only in parentheses. 

Manuscript Submission: Electronic submissions must be made via 
the JAR website (http://journalofadvertisingresearch.com [click on the 
Submit tab]) or directly at our Editorial Manager page, http://www.􀀂
editorialmanager.com/jar. Paper submissions are not accepted. The 
JAR website offers other information including editorial board members 
and editorial policies. First-time authors will be required to create 
an Editorial Manager user account in order to proceed. Each submission 
must adhere to the above guidelines; those that do not follow the 
guidelines will be returned to the author for correction. If you have 
any questions, please contact us at jar@warc.com.􀀂


