Instructions to Authors 

Journal 
of 
Individual 
Differences 



Hogrefe 
Publishing 
GmbH 
Tel. 
+49 
551 
999 
50 
0 
Merkelstr. 
3 
Fax 
+49 
551 
999 
50 
111 
37085 
Göttingen 
publishing@hogrefe.com 
Germany 
www.hogrefe.com 



Instructions 
to 
Authors 
2/6 


The Journal of Individual Differences publishes manuscripts dealing with individual 
differences in behavior, emotion, cognition, and their developmental aspects. This includes 
human as well as animal research. 

The Journal of Individual Differences is conceptualized to bring together researchers 
working in different areas ranging from, for example, molecular genetics to theories of 
complex behavior. Moreover, it places emphasis on papers dealing with special 
methodological and conceptual issues in basic science as well as in their applied fields 
(assessment of personality and intelligence). 

Journal of Individual Differences publishes the following 
types of articles 

Regular Research Articles, Extended Research Articles, Review Articles, Meta-Analyses 

Please note that it is possible to submit electronic supplementary material (ESM). This 
material will not be printed and should only be submitted if this is strictly necessary. ESM is 
not included in the word count. 

Important: An allowance for any tables and figures should be deducted from the total word 
count depending on their size. A typical table or figure takes up a quarter, half, or full page. 
Each quarter page equals about 200 words per quarter print page. 

Regular research articles are papers reporting two or fewer experiments and may 
contain up to 5,000 words (including everything, i.e., text, references, notes, tables, figures, 
and appendices). 

Extended research articles are papers reporting more than two studies with different 
samples and methods and may contain up to 10,000 words (including everything, i.e., text, 
references, notes, tables, figures, and appendices). 

Review articles may contain up to 10,000 words (including everything, i.e., text, 
references, notes, tables, figures, and appendices). 

Meta-analyses may contain up to 10,000 words (including everything, i.e., text, references, 
notes, tables, figures, and appendices). 



Instructions 
to 
Authors 
3/6 


Manuscript Preparation 

Manuscripts should be prepared according to the Publication Manual of the American 
Psychological Association (7th ed.). In particular, statistical and mathematical copy should 
conform to the Publication Manual, as well as the references. Please note that all journal 
articles in the reference list should be provided together with their DOIs (Digital Object 
Identifier). 

Manuscript Submission 

Submissions are only accepted online at www.editorialmanager.com/jindivdiff. Submissions 
may include electronic supplementary material (ESM) if this is strictly necessary. ESM 
should only be used if there are items that are not essential for inclusion in the full text but 
would nevertheless benefit the reader. Reviews are returned to the authors within 4 weeks of 
submission. Please follow the online instructions for submission. 

Please direct any editorial questions to the editorial office: 

E-mail martin.voracek@univie.ac.at 

Should you have any technical queries regarding this process, please contact Juliane 
Munson, Hogrefe Publishing: 

E-mail juliane.munson@hogrefe.com 
Tel. +49 551 99950-422 
Fax +49 551 99950-425 

The following manuscript formats are accepted: 

– rtf (rich text format) 
– doc (Microsoft Word, version 6.0 and higher) 
Figures and Tables 

Figures and tables should be numbered using Arabic numerals. The number of figures and 
tables should be kept to a minimum and only be included to facilitate understanding of the 
text. The same information should not appear in both a figure and a table. Each table and 
figure must be cited in the text and should be accompanied by a legend. Please note that 
online submission via the Editorial Manager allows text, figures, and tables to be submitted 
as separate files. Figures must be supplied in a form suitable for reproduction: preferably 
high-resolution bitmaps (e.g., jpg, 300 dpi) or as vector graphics files. Figures will normally 
be reproduced in black and white only. While it is possible to reproduce color illustrations, 
authors are reminded that they will be invoiced for the extra costs involved. 



Instructions 
to 
Authors 
4/6 


Electronic Supplementary Material 

Electronic supplementary material (ESM) contains additional items that are not essential for 
inclusion in the full text but would nevertheless benefit the reader. Being electronic, ESM can 
also include items that cannot, at this time, be produced in print form. ESM will be published 
online as received from the author(s) without any conversion, testing, or reformatting. They 
will not be checked for typographical errors or functionality. The responsibility for the 
content and functionality remains entirely with the author(s). 

Hogrefe Publishing does not provide technical support for the creation or viewing of the 
supplementary files. If necessary, authors should seek the assistance of their local IT 
department. Like the manuscript, ESM should be original and not previously published. If 
previously published, it must be submitted with the necessary permissions. Note that the 
ESM files, just like the article itself, are permanent records and may not be altered once they 
have been published online. 

Submission 

ESM files will be subjected to peer review along with the article itself. The number of ESM 
files you submit should be limited to 5. The file size should be kept as small as possible, not 
exceeding 10 MB in total. All file formats are accepted with the exception of executable files 
(e.g., .exe, .com, or .msi). Commonly used file formats that are accessible by most readers are 
preferred. Following the online instructions, submit the ESM files in a single zip file separate 
from the other files that are part of your submission. 

Citation in Manuscript 

All ESM files must be referred to with intext citations (as for tables, figures, and appendices) 
and should be numbered in the order in which they are cited in the text. 

Follow the example: 

– For more information, listen to the audio file in Electronic Supplementary Material 1. 
or: 
– (listen to the audio file in Electronic Supplementary Material 1) 
or: 
–(the audio file is provided in Electronic Supplementary Material 1) 
If appropriate, you may combine several ESM elements into a single file. For example: 

– See Tables 1–3 in Electronic Supplementary Material 1. 
Include a section headed ‘‘Electronic Supplementary Material’’ at the end of your article 
before the reference section. List all files in the order in which they are cited in the text. 
Provide a title for each ESM file along with the file name. Optionally, you may also provide a 
short description for each file (max. 20 words). Follow the example: 



Instructions 
to 
Authors 
5/6 


– ESM 1. Audio file (utterancesparticipants.mp3). (= title and file name) 
This audio file contains utterances of the study participants. (= description of file) 
– ESM 1. Tables 1–3 (tables1–3.xlsx). (= title and file name) 
The tables show additional p-values, weather variables, and demographic characteristics. 
(= description of file) 
Make sure that the file names listed here match the names of the submitted files. Please note 
that only the title and the description will appear in the article; the file name will not. It is for 
reference purposes only. 

Proofs 

PDF proofs will be sent to the corresponding author. Changes of content or stylistic changes 
may only be made in exceptional cases in the proofs. Corrections that exceed 5% of the 
typesetting costs may be invoiced to the authors. 

Offprints 

The corresponding author of each accepted paper will receive free online access to the 
published version of the paper when it is first released online. The author may download the 
PDF of the published version of record. It is provided for the author’s personal use, including 
for sharing with coauthors (see also ‘‘Guidelines on sharing and use of articles in Hogrefe 
journals’’ on the journal’s web page at www.hogrefe.com/j/jid). 

Copyright Agreement 

By submitting an article, the author confirms and guarantees on behalf of themselves and any 
co-authors that the manuscript has not been submitted or published elsewhere, and that they 
hold all copyright in and titles to the submitted contribution, including any figures, 
photographs, line drawings, plans, maps, sketches, and tables, and that the article and its 
contents do not infringe in any way on the rights of third parties. The author indemnifies and 
holds harmless the publisher from any third-party claims. 

The author agrees, upon acceptance of the article for publication, to transfer to the publisher 
the exclusive right to reproduce and distribute the article and its contents, both physically and in 
nonphysical, electronic, or other form, in the journal to which it has been submitted and in other 
independent publications, with no limitations on the number of copies or on the form or the 
extent of distribution. These rights are transferred for the duration of copyright as defined by 
international law. Furthermore, the author transfers to the publisher the following exclusive 
rights to the article and its contents: 



Instructions 
to 
Authors 
6/6 


1. The rights to produce advance copies, reprints, or offprints of the article, in full or in part, 
to undertake or allow translations into other languages, to distribute other forms or 
modified versions of the article, and to produce and distribute summaries or abstracts. 
2. The rights to microfilm and microfiche editions or similar, to the use of the article and its 
contents in videotext, teletext, and similar systems, to recordings or reproduction using 
other media, digital or analog, including electronic, magnetic, and optical media, and in 
multimedia form, as well as for public broadcasting in radio, television, or other forms of 
broadcast. 
3. The rights to store the article and its content in machine-readable or electronic form on all 
media (such as computer disks, compact disks, magnetic tape), to store the article and its 
contents in online databases belonging to the publisher or third parties for viewing or 
downloading by third parties, and to present or reproduce the article or its contents on 
visual display screens, monitors, and similar devices, either directly or via data 
transmission. 
4. The rights to reproduce and distribute the article and its contents by all other means, 
including photo-mechanical and similar processes (such as photocopying or facsimile), and 
as part of so-called document delivery services. 
5. The right to transfer any or all rights mentioned in this agreement, as well as rights 
retained by the relevant copyright clearing centers, including royalty rights to third 
parties. 
Online Rights for Journal Articles 

Guidelines on authors’ rights to archive electronic versions of their manuscripts online are 
given in the document “Guidelines on sharing and use of articles in Hogrefe journals” on the 
journal’s web page at www.hogrefe.com/j/jid. 

June 2020 



