Journal of Chinese Political Science 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR AUTHORS 

All submissions to the Journal of Chinese Political Science should be submitted 
online: http://www.editorialmanager.com/jcps/default.aspx Please follow the 
instructions on how to submit online and how to upload the manuscripts. But, please 
read instructions for the preparation of manuscripts first. 

Authors should create an account, and submit a full manuscript with an abstract and 5 
keywords, which should be kept anonymous, and a separate title page that contains 

the following information: (1) the title; (2) author(s)’s names; (3) institutional 


affiliation(s) and position(s) with mailing address, email address and telephone 
number; (4) a biosketches or brief biographical statement of authors. 

Manuscripts should range from in length from 6,000 to 10,000 words, including 
endnotes, references, tables, figures and appendices. Manuscripts should conform to 
the styling of Journal of Chinese Political Science. Manuscript will not be considered 
if it is concurrently under consideration by another journal or published or soon to be 
published elsewhere. The author is responsible for obtaining permission to publish 
any copyrighted material. 

Endnotes are necessary only for further explanation of something within the text. 
They should be kept to a minimum and numbered consecutively throughout the text. 
Acknowledgements and information on grants received can be given in the first 
endnote, which should not be included in the consecutive numbering of endnotes. 
References must be arranged alphabetically under author(s) name(s) and then in 
chronological order if several papers by the same author(s) are cited. Manuscripts 
submitted should conform to the journal style, and authors should check the format of 
their manuscript with that of a recent issue of the journal, paying particular attention 
to reference style, tables, and figures, etc. Please contact the Editorial Office via 
Editorial Manager (EM), which will be forwarded to the editors, if you have any 
question. 

Book Reviews and Review Essays Submission 

We also publish book reviews on most recently published academic books in political 
science and review essays which address a significant development in theories, 
methods and other important aspects of the political science discipline and subfields. 
See book review and review essay instructions below for details. 

Book review is a short review essay (750 words) on a book, summarize the main 
ideas, arguments, theories, methods, or findings, and explore their significance. 


Review essay between (4,000 to 7,000 words) aims to review the existing academic 
literature to explore a new development or research agenda in the discipline or 
sub-fields or address a small number of books or articles on the similar themes and 
topics in a much more in depth and critical manner in order to consider how these 
books illuminate a larger and important conceptual, theoretical or methodological 
concern. Therefore, the review essay should bring a range of texts into dialogue with 
one another, identifying both thematic commonalities and methodological differences, 
and illuminating the purpose described above. For details, please see the “JCPS Call 
for Review Essays” 
on the right hand-side pull-down menu of the journal homepage: 

http://www.springer.com/political+science/journal/11366?detailsPage=editorialBoard 

Authors who intend to publish review essay or book review in JCPS should contact 
the Associate Editor-in-Chief, Jessica Teets, via email at jteets@middlebury.edu , to 
discuss ideas for an essay or requirements. 

Books for review, either by authors or publishers, should be sent to: Professor 
Jessica C. Teets, Department of Political Science, Munroe 318, Middlebury College, 
Middlebury, VT 05753, USA. Email: jteets@middlebury.edu 

http://www.springer.com/journal/11366 
Journal of Chinese Political Science 
Editor-in-Chief: S. Guo 
ISSN: 1080-6954 (print version) 
ISSN: 1874-6357 (electronic version) 
Journal no. 11366 
Springer Netherlands 


http://www.springer.com/journal/11366 



