Scope 

 

Multisensory Research (MSR) is an interdisciplinary archival journal covering all aspects of multisensory 
processing including the control of action, cognition and attention. Research using any approach to 
increase our understanding of multisensory perceptual, behavioural, neural and computational 
mechanisms is encouraged. Empirical, neurophysiological, psychophysical, brain imaging, clinical, 
developmental, mathematical and computational analyses are welcome. Research will also be 
considered covering multisensory applications such as sensory substitution, crossmodal methods for 
delivering sensory information or multisensory approaches to robotics and engineering. Short 
communications and technical notes that draw attention to new developments will be included, as will 
reviews and commentaries on current issues. Special issues dealing with specific topics will be 
announced from time to time. Multisensory Research is a continuation of Seeing and Perceiving: A Journal 
of Multisensory Science, and of Spatial Vision. 


Ethical and Legal Conditions 

 

The publication of a manuscript in a peer-reviewed work is expected to follow standards of ethical 
behavior for all parties involved in the act of publishing: authors, editors, and reviewers. Authors, editors, 
and reviewers should thoroughly acquaint themselves with Brill’s publication ethics, which may be 
downloaded here: brill.com/page/ethics/publication-ethics-cope-compliance. 

 

Online Submission 

 

Authors should submit their manuscript online via the Editorial Manager (EM) online submission 
system at editorialmanager.com/msrbrill. 

First-time users of EM need to register first. Go to the website and click on the "Register Now" link in the 
login menu. Enter the information requested. During registration, you can fill in your username and 
password. If you should forget your Username and Password, click on the "send login details" link in the 
login section, and enter your e-mail address exactly as you entered it when you registered. Your access 
codes will then be e-mailed to you. 

Prior to submission, authors are encouraged to read the ‘Instructions for Authors’. When submitting via 
the website, you will be guided stepwise through the creation and uploading of the various files. 

A revised document is uploaded the same way as the initial submission. The system automatically 
generates an electronic (PDF) proof, which is then used for reviewing purposes. All correspondence, 
including the editor’s request for revision and final decision, is sent by e-mail. 

Authors also have the opportunity to suggest and oppose reviewers by submitting the names and (e-mail) 
addresses. 

 


Supplementary Media / Data Files 

To support and enhance your manuscript, MSR accepts electronic supplementary material, including 
supporting applications, high-resolution images, background datasets, sound or video clips, large 
appendices, data tables and other items that cannot be included in the article PDF itself. Authors should 
submit the material in electronic format together with the other manuscript files and supply a concise 
and descriptive caption for each file. In order to ensure that your submitted material is directly usable, 
please provide the data in one of the broadly accepted file formats for video, audio, etc. and limit the file 
size (e.g., for video: max. 3 GB). Supplementary files supplied will be published online at FigShare 
(www.figshare.com), to which reference is made in the published article on Brill Online Books and 
Journals, and vice versa. 

 

File Formats 

Most popular formats are allowed for the initial submission, as long as an editable source file (i.e., Word 
or LaTeX document) is included. Figures must be in digital format. Please refer to ‘Figures’ further in this 
document for more detailed instructions. 

 

Contact Address 

For any questions or problems relating to your manuscript please contact the Editors; Laurence Harris – 
harris@yorku.ca; Marc Ernst – marc.ernst@uni-ulm.de. 

For eventual questions about Editorial Manager, authors can also contact the Brill EM Support 
Department at: em@brill.com. 

 

When submitting a manuscript, please note: 

− The editorial board tries to keep the reviewing process as short as possible and to inform the author of 
the final decision (accept/reject/revise) within two months of submission, whenever possible. 


 

Submission Requirements 

 

Language 

Manuscripts should be written in English. Spelling (British or American) should be consistent 
throughout. 


Manuscript Structure 

 

Contributions should be typed with numbered pages, 1.5 or double line spacing and wide margins 
throughout. 

 


The first page of an article should contain the title of the paper, the name(s) and address(es) of the 
author(s), a short title (not exceeding 50 characters, spaces included), and the name, e-mail address and 
postal address of the author to whom correspondence and proofs should be sent. 

 

The manuscript title should be given in roman (The Title of the Manuscript), with capitals for the first 
letter of main words and should be as brief and informative as possible. 

 

Authors’ names should be in roman type as normally used by the author, first name followed by family 
name, names separated by commas and between the last two names by ‘and’, references to institutes 
and addresses as superscripts (e.g. 1, or 1,2 in ascending order). 

 

Affiliation: the institute where the work has been done should be indicated under the authors in roman 
type, first letters of major words in capitals. When the authors are based at different organizations this 
should be indicated in superscript in front of the institute (e.g. 1Centre for Spatial Vision Sciences –
corresponding to the references under ‘authors’). 

 

E-mail addresses of corresponding authors may be added as numbered footnotes. 

 

Summary and Keywords 

Each article should be accompanied by a summary in English, which should mention all the principal 
facts and conclusions set forth in the paper. A similar summary in another relevant language may be 
added, but this is not required. The word limit for the summary is 250. 

Three to eight keywords should be given. 

 

Headings 

Main headings in bold (Summary, Introduction, Material and methods, Results, Discussion, 
Acknowledgements, References or other variants if appropriate), capitals only for first letter of sentence 
and first letters proper names, separated by white lines from text. 

Second level headings in italics, flush left, capitals only for first letter of sentence and first letters proper 
names, separated by white lines from text. Sub-subheadings in roman type, aligned to the left, capitals 
only for first letter of sentence and first letters proper names, separated by a white line from preceding 
text, following text starting on next line. 

Italics should only be used for scientific species names, words that need to be emphasized (no italics for: 
e.g., i.e., etc., cf.) and for mathematical and statistical variables such as p, F, U, T, N, r, but not for SD 
(standard deviation), SE (standard error), DF (degrees of freedom) and NS (non-significant). 

 

Bold should only be used in exceptional cases of extra emphasis or in some formulas. 

 


Capitals should only be used for first letters of sentences, first letters proper names and first letters of 
specific words (e.g. tables, figures, experiments, behaviour patterns) that should be emphasized; small 
capitals for words that should be printed in capitals. 

 

Mathematics 

Detailed mathematical discussion should be placed in an appendix. 

Units of measurement, abbreviations and symbols should follow the international system of units (SI). 

Equations and formulae should be numbered consecutively with Arabic numerals in parentheses on the 
right-hand side of the page. 

 

References 

The Harvard system should be used for the references. In this system, names and dates are given in the 
body of the text and an alphabetical list of references given at the end of the manuscript in a reference 
list. 

 

Text Citations 

References in the text should give the author’s surname with the year of publication in parentheses. 
When reference is made to a work by two authors, both names should be given; references to works by 
more than two authors should give the name of the first author, followed by et al., e.g. Smith et al. (1973). 
If several papers by the same author(s) in the same year are cited, a, b, c, etc. should be placed after the 
year of publication, e.g. Smith and Jones (1982a, b). 

 

Reference List 

 

Journal Articles 

Please list the doi number whenever possible. 

Pavani, F., Boscagli, I., Benvenuti, F., Rabuffetti, M. and Farne, A. (1999). Are perception and action 
affected differently by the Titchener circles illusion? Exper. Brain Res. 127, 95–101. 

 

Books 

Milner, A. D. and Goodale, M. A. (1995). The Visual Brain in Action. Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK. 

Chapter in Edited Book 

Pinna, B. and Reeves, A. (2006). Lighting, backlighting and watercolor illusions and the laws of figurality, 
in: Color, Line, and Space. The Neuroscience of Spatio-Chromatic Vision, B. Pinna (Ed.), Spatial Vision 
Perspectives, Vol. 1, pp. 239-271, Brill, Leiden, The Netherlands. 

 


Conference Proceedings 

De Grave, D., Brenner, E. and Smeets, J. (2002). Pointing towards the Brentano illusion, in: VSS 2nd Annual 
Meeting, Sarasota, Florida, Abstract 726, p. 247. 

 

PhD (MSc, MD, etc.) Thesis 

Vighetto, A. (1980). Etude neuropsychologique et psychophysique de l’ataxie optique, Thèse médecine, 
Lyon. 

 

If a publication is in press, the reference should be made as complete as possible, stating the name of the 
journal and adding “in press”. 

 

Figures and Tables 

References to tables should consist of the complete word, first letter capital (also in the middle of a 
sentence or in brackets) + number in Arabic numerals: Table 7 or (Table 7). 

References to figures should consist of the complete word only at the beginning of a sentence and in the 
figure captions; otherwise the abbreviations “Fig.” or “Figs” are used. 

Tables should be kept as simple as possible with at least 3 horizontal lines and additional lines if 
appropriate, data ordered in a convenient way. The title should give all details that are needed to 
understand the table except obvious footnotes. 

Figures should be submitted as separate source files in .eps, .tif, or .jpg format, in a size suitable for the 
typesetting area of the journal which is 125 x 195 mm. The resolution of these files should be at least 300 
dpi for half-tone figures, and 600 dpi for line drawings. Number the files, and indicate in the manuscript 
where they are to appear (Fig. 1 here). 

The text in a figure must be legible, and should not be smaller than corps 7. The size of this lettering for 
any text in a figure should be the same for all figures in the manuscript. 

Greyscale graphics must be provided as monochrome images. There is no charge for full colour images 
or figures in either the print or electronic edition. 

To guarantee good resolution in printing, colour figures must be original TIF or EPS (no PDF) files with a 
minimal resolution of 300 dpi for half-tone figures, and 600 dpi for line drawings and in full colour (i.e., 
CMYK and not RGB format). Diagrams, maps, drawings, charts, and photographs should be free of 
charge and copyright, or permission for publication has to be obtained from the original copyright 
owner(s). 

Figure captions should not be attached to the figures, but should be included as a separate page at the 
end of the manuscript. 

 

Abbreviations 

Abbreviations should be followed by ‘.’ unless the abbreviation is written with the last letter of the 
original word at the end position (thus: i.e. – e.g. – cf. – etc. but Eds – Dr – edn – Figs) – measures (such 
as mm cm m s l) without ‘.’. 


Quotations 

Use single quotation marks (‘) for isolated words or conceptions, double (“) for literal quotes. 

 

Copyright 

The use of general descriptive names, trademarks, etc., in this publication, even if the former are not 
specifically identified, is not to be taken as a sign that such names are exempt from the relevant 
protective Instructions to Authors’ laws and regulations and may accordingly be used freely by anyone. 


Publication 

 

Proofs 

Upon acceptance, a PDF of the article proofs will be sent to each author by e-mail to check carefully for 
factual and typographic errors. Authors are responsible for checking these proofs and are strongly urged 
to make use of the Comment & Markup toolbar to note their corrections directly on the proofs. At this 
stage in the production process only minor corrections are allowed. Alterations to the original 
manuscript at this stage will result in considerable delay in publication and, therefore, are not accepted 
unless charged to the author. Proofs should be corrected and returned to the managing editor as quickly 
as possible. 

 

E-offprints 

A PDF file of the article will be supplied free of charge by the publisher to authors for personal use. Brill 
is a RoMEO yellow publisher. The Author retains the right to self-archive the submitted (pre-peer-review) 
version of the article at any time. The submitted version of an article is the author's version that has not 
been peer-reviewed, nor had any value added to it by Brill (such as formatting or copy editing). The 
Author retains the right to self-archive the accepted (peer-reviewed) version after an embargo period of 
12 months. The accepted version means the version which has been accepted for publication and 
contains all revisions made after peer reviewing and copy editing, but has not yet been typeset in the 
publisher’s lay-out. The publisher’s lay-out must not be used in any repository or on any 
website (brill.com/resources/authors/publishing-books-brill/self-archiving-rights). 


Consent to Publish 

 

Transfer of Copyright 

By submitting a manuscript, the author agrees that the copyright for the article is transferred to the 
publisher if and when the article is accepted for publication. For that purpose the author needs to sign 
the Consent to Publish which will be sent with the first proofs of the manuscript. 


Open Access 

Should the author wish to publish the article in Open Access he/she can choose the Brill Open option. 
This allows for non-exclusive Open Access publication under a Creative Commons license in exchange 
for an Article Publication Charge (APC), upon signing a special Brill Open Consent to Publish Form. 

More information on Brill Open can be found on brill.com/brillopen. 

 


