Revised: January 2017 

Documentation Guide 
University of Nebraska Press 

For all fields the press follows the recommendations given in Chicago Manual of Style, 17th edition, and 
spelling preferences given in Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary, 11th edition. UNP discourages 
following other conventions, namely MLA and AAA, as Chicago is the benchmark for style and 
documentation in the publishing industry and UNP copyeditors have been trained in its rules. This guide 
will address Chicago’s systems: notes-and-bibliography and author-date. 

Multiauthor /Contributed Volumes 

While the bibliography in a single-author or co-authored work is placed at the end, in a multiauthor book 
each chapter may be followed by a brief set of notes and bibliography. The standard formatting rules 
explained below should be adhered to in the individual note and bibliography entries. In addition: 

 
All chapters must use the same system of documentation: whether the notes-and-bibliography system 
or the author-date system. 
 
Do not combine all sources into one bibliography, regardless of the number of repeated sources 
mentioned across chapters. 
NOTES-AND-BIBLIOGRAPHY SYSTEM 

UNP’s first preference is to use shortened citations in the notes linked to a comprehensive bibliography 
that is organized alphabetically. Short cites lend a clean look to the notes section and are easily navigable 
and understandable for the reader; a full alphabetical bibliography displays your knowledge of the field 
and the breadth of your research and is easy for the reader to search. 

Notes and Note markers 

Most important, UNP does not allow footnotes. Please use only endnotes. 

An endnote short cites contains only the author’s surname, a shortened title of the work, and the page 
number, if relevant. Do not repeat the full bibliographic information in the notes. For example: Wishart, 
Last Days of the Rainbelt, 134–37. Other style issues to follow: 

 
UNP house style prohibits the use of “Ibid.,” “Op. cit.,” “passim,” and other similar abbreviations in a 
note. Use a short cite or specific page reference instead. 
 
Acknowledgments of any kind should not appear in a numbered note. Either include the 
acknowledgments in an acknowledgments section or, for contributed volumes, in an unnumbered note 
at the start of the notes section of each contribution. 
 
Avoid using more than one note marker (number) per sentence. 
 
Note markers should be placed at the end of a sentence or, if it’s absolutely necessary to use multiple 
notes for clarity, at the end of a punctuated phrase. 
 
Do not use note markers on chapter titles, subheadings, epigraphs, captions, or other display type. In 
an epigraph, use a brief source / attribution line instead. In a caption, source information should be 
included at the end of the caption. 
 
Citations to newspaper articles or personal communications or interviews should appear in the notes 
only, not in the bibliography except archival material. 

Revised: January 2017 

Bibliography 

Bibliographies, if divided into sections, should be divided into two sections only: Archives/Manuscript 
Materials (personal papers, typescripts, letters and other correspondence, speeches); and Published 
Works (including dissertations and published government documents). Citations to newspapers and 
newspaper articles should appear in the notes only. If more than the preferred two sections is absolutely 
necessary for the reader’s understanding (e.g., a separate category for personal interviews and 
communications), a headnote must be included at the beginning of the bibliography to explain the 
rationale for the subdivision. 

Generally, UNP suggests using one of three styles of bibliography: 

 
Full Bibliography: First preference. All sources are referenced in the text and notes. 
 
Selected Bibliography: Not all works in the text and notes are cited (only “selected” ones). 
 
[List of] Sources: Reserved solely for discursive citations and usually divided by both chapter and 
relevant subject(s). Information about the sources appears in paragraph form, not as an alphabetical 
list. Although this is neither UNP’s preferred form nor considered a standard bibliography, it allows 
room for background information and clarification on chosen documentation decisions. For example, 
a list of sources is appropriate when citing numerous older sources for which not all publication 
information is readily available. 
If the MS uses a bibliographic essay or only a selected (partial) bibliography, a work’s first mention in 
each chapter must provide full bibliographic information; subsequent cites in that chapter should use short 
cites. If that source is cited again in a later chapter, the full biblio information must be repeated as well. 

Archives and Manuscript Materials 

UNP’s preference for an archival citation is a short cite in the notes with a complete entry in the 
bibliography. In an archive note, the main element is usually a specific item (a letter, a typescript, a 
memorandum, etc.), which should be given first, then the author or owner, followed by specific location 
information. The main element in the corresponding bibliography entry is usually either the collection in 
which the specific item may be found, the author(s) or owners of the items in the collection, or the 
repository for the collection. Specific items should not be included in a bibliography unless only one item 
from a collection is cited. 

Example archive source entries 

AAA. Papers of the American Anthropological Association. National Anthropological Archives, 
Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC. 

CDBC. Cora Du Bois Papers (1961–72). Special Collections Research Center, University of Chicago 
Library, University of Chicago, Chicago IL. Permission granted by the trustees of the Cora Du 
Bois Revocable Trust. 

CDBH. Cora Alice Du Bois Papers (spec.coll.ethg.d 852c). Tozzer Library, Harvard College Library, 
Harvard University, Cambridge MA. 
New York State Library, Manuscripts and Special Collections, Albany. Warren, Gouverneur Kemble. 
Journal, SC10668. 
Welch Dakota Papers. “Oral History of the Dakota Tribes, 1800s–1945, as told to Colonel A. B. Welch, 
the First White Man Adopted by the Sioux Nation.” http://www.welch-dakotapapers.com. 

Example archive note entries 

15. “Statement of the Executive Board of the AAA,” AAA Bulletins, Annual Report, 1969. 

Revised: January 2017 

17. Du Bois to Foster, May 14, 1970, AAA, Box 109. 
22. An additional account of this incident can be found in the Welch Dakota Papers. 
24. The journal of Army Corps of Engineers officer Gouverneur Kemble Warren at the New York State 
Library is especially interesting. 

53. Du Bois to Seymour, March 26, 1976, CDBC. 
54. Du Bois to Seymour, October 31, 1977, CDBC. 
65. Cora Du Bois to Pat and Gérard Du Bois, December 21, 1984, CDBH, Box 19. 
66. Du Bois to Read, September 28, 1978, CDBH, Box 28. 
Published Works 

NOTE: Large and well-known cities do not need the corresponding state name, e.g.: Berlin, Boston, 
Buenos Aires, Chicago, London, Los Angeles, New Orleans, New York, Paris, Philadelphia, San 
Francisco, New Orleans, New York, Seattle. Other cities should include the country or state name, except 
for citations to university presses whose names include the state name. Thus: “Lincoln: University of 
Nebraska Press” but “Bronx NY: Fordham University Press.” 

Book with a Single Author 
Full: 1. Herbert Asbury, The Barbary Coast: An Informal History of the San Francisco Underworld 
(New York: A. A. Knopf, 1933), 5–13. 
Short: 2. Asbury, Barbary Coast, 66. 
Biblio: Asbury, Herbert. The Barbary Coast: An Informal History of the San Francisco Underworld. 
New York: A. A. Knopf, 1933. 

Book with Multiple Authors 
Full: 1. Jonathan Parshall and Anthony Tully, Shattered Sword: The Untold Story of the Battle of 
Midway (Washington DC: Potomac Books, 2005), 205. 
Short: 2. Parshall and Tully, Shattered Sword, 100–102. 
Biblio: Parshall, Jonathan, and Anthony Tully. Shattered Sword: The Untold Story of the Battle of 
Midway. Washington DC: Potomac Books, 2005. 

Book with an Editor 
Full: 1. Andrew F. Smith, ed., Oxford Companion to American Food and Drink (New York: Oxford 
University Press, 2007), 554. 
Short: 2. Smith, Oxford Companion, 608. 
Biblio: Smith, Andrew F., ed. Oxford Companion to American Food and Drink. New York: Oxford 
University Press, 2007. 

Chapter in a Book 

Full: 1. Aaron S. Klieman, “Israeli Diplomacy in the Thirtieth Year of Statehood: Constants and 
Discontinuities,” in Israel: A Developing Society, ed. Asher Arian (Amsterdam, Netherlands: Van 
Gorcum, 1980), 33–58. 

Short: 2. Klieman, “Israeli Diplomacy,” 37. 


Revised: January 2017 

Biblio: Klieman, Aaron S. “Israeli Diplomacy in the Thirtieth Year of Statehood: Constants and 
Discontinuities.” In Israel: A Developing Society, edited by Asher Arian, 33–58. Amsterdam, 
Netherlands: Van Gorcum, 1980. 

Journal or Magazine Article 
Full: 1. Robert L. McGrath, “The Endless Trail of the End of the Trail.” Journal of the West 40, no. 1 
(Fall 2000): 8–10. 
Short: 2. McGrath, “Endless Trail,” 9. 
Biblio: McGrath, Robert L. “The Endless Trail of the End of the Trail.” Journal of the West 40, no. 1 
(Fall 2000): 8–15. 

Dissertations 
Full: 1. Choi Mihwa, “Contesting Imaginaires in Death Rituals during the Northern Song Dynasty.” 
PhD diss., University of Chicago, 2008. 
Short: 2. Mihwa, “Contesting Imaginaires,” 24. 
Biblio: Mihwa, Choi. “Contesting Imaginaires in Death Rituals during the Northern Song Dynasty.” PhD 
dissertation, University of Chicago, 2008. 

Newspaper (cites appear in notes only) 
Full: 6. Mike Royko, “Next Time, Dan, Take Aim at Arnold,” Chicago Tribune, September 23, 1992. 
Short: 38. Royko, “Next Time, Dan.” 
*If there is no byline, it is acceptable to list article title, date, newspaper and/or news service. This is often 
the case with older articles. 

Citing from the Web 

Online periodicals and ebooks are cited exactly as the same as their print versions with the addition of a 
URL for the specific content accessed. If the page is no longer accessible, indicate that the site has been 
modified or deleted. 

11. Beau Jaynes, “The General’s Way,” Marching Chronicles 4, no. 2 (September 1918): 28–31, 
http://www.johndoe.org/mcweb/archive/showDoc.do?docId=4291918&PageId=28 (site 
discontinued). 
URLs indicate the location of material only and do not constitute a reference. The author (or organizational 
author), title, and approximate date the material was posted must be included with the URL. An access 
date indicating the month and year the author viewed the material is needed if no posting or publication 
date is apparent. Examples: 

12. BBC News, “Mystery over Ghost Ship Migrants,” May 30, 2006, 
http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/5029230.stm. 
13. U.S. Department of State, Trafficking in Persons Report (Washington DC: Office to Monitor 
and Combat Trafficking in Persons, June 4, 2008). 

Revised: January 2017 

AUTHOR-DATE SYSTEM 

Whereas a notes-and-bibliography system uses notes to convey source information, the author-date 
system features in-text parenthetical citations that correspond to a reference list at the end of a book. A 
reference list differs from a bibliography only in that the date is placed immediately after the author name, 
not at the end of an entry. Otherwise, all formatting is the same. 

In the in-text parenthetical citations, only the author’s last name and year of publication are listed; page 
numbers appear when applicable for direct quotes. If the author’s name is mentioned in the text, only the 
year need appear in the parenthetical cite (differing examples shown below): 

Text example 1: He returned to America and did succeed . . . in making a “whole new home in a new 
place” (Clifford 1997, 250). 

Text example 2: He returned to America and did succeed, in the words Clifford (1997) uses to 
describe the immigrant experience, in making a “whole new home in a new place” (250). 

Reference List: Clifford, James. 1997. Routes: Travel and Translation in the Late Twentieth Century. 
Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press. 

No Known Author 

Please use the shortened title of a work, as well as publication year and page number. 

Text: Influenced by advice from artist Mary Cassatt, the Havemeyers were avid collectors of 
impressionist paintings (“World’s Columbian” 1973). 

Reference List: “World’s Columbian Exposition.” 1973. The Knoedler Library of Art Exhibition 
Catalogues on Microfiche: Major National and International Expositions and Worlds’ Fairs. 
Teaneck NJ: Chadwyck-Healey. 

Multiple Authors 

For a book authored by three or fewer, list all last names in the text or citation. For books authored by 
more than three, only use the first author’s last name followed by “et al.” 

Text: However, as legal scholars demonstrate, “the virtual universality of married women’s property 
acts did not mean . . . that uniformity reigned in America” (Shammas, Salmon, and Dalin 1987, 83). 

Reference List: Shammas, Carole, Marylynn Salmon, and Michel Dalin. 1987. Inheritance in 
America: Colonial Times to the Present. New Brunswick NJ: Rutgers University Press. 

Book with an Editor 

Include the abbreviation for editor in the reference list. For the parenthetical citation, however, only the 
last name and year of publication are needed. 

Text: This sentiment of African American art and music as the only “native-born” American artistic 
contribution is reinforced in The Book of American Negro Poetry: “[T]he Negro . . . [is] the creator of 
the only things artistic that have sprung from American soil and been universally acknowledged as 
distinctive American products” (Johnson 1922, 10). 


Revised: January 2017 

Reference List: Johnson, James Weldon, ed. 1922. The Book of American Negro Poetry. New York: 
Harcourt, Brace. 

Indirect Sources 

To cite an indirect source, usually a quote within a work you’re referencing, in the text use “quoted in” 
and the last name and page number of the source cited. This practice should be avoided, however; please 
attempt to locate the original source. 

Text: Such an idea connects to Cather’s comment, noted earlier, regarding assimilationist efforts to 
turn immigrants into “stupid replicas of smug American citizens” (quoted in Ryan 2003). 

References: Ryan, Melissa. 2003. “The Enclosure of America: Civilization and Confinement in Willa 
Cather’s O Pioneers!” American Literature 75, no. 2 (1997): 275–303. 

N.B. regarding AAA Style Guide 
September 9, 2015: “After much consideration of publishing standards and member input, AAA has 
decided to cease production of the AAA Style Guide. AAA style now adheres fully to the current 
edition of the Chicago Manual of Style (Author-Date), which can be located on their website. 
If you have any questions, comments or concerns please contact Digital Editorial Assistant Elyse 
Bailey at ebailey@americananthro.org. 


