 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Instructions to Authors 

 

Social Psychology 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hogrefe Publishing GmbH 

Merkelstr. 3 

37085 Göttingen 

Germany 

Tel. +49 551 999 50 0 

Fax +49 551 999 50 111 

publishing@hogrefe.com 

www.hogrefe.com 



 


Social Psychology is a publication dedicated to international research in social psychology as 
well as a forum for scientific discussion and debate. The sole publishing language is English, 
and there are 6 issues per year. 

 

Aims and Scope 

Social Psychology publishes innovative and methodologically sound research and serves as 
an international forum for scientific discussion and debate in the field of social psychology. 
Topics include all basic social psychological research themes, methodological advances in 
social psychology, as well as research in applied fields of social psychology. The journal 
focuses on original empirical contributions to social psychological research, but is open to 
theoretical articles, critical reviews, and replications of published research. 

The journal welcomes original empirical and theoretical contributions to basic research in 
social psychology, to social psychological methods, as well as contributions covering research 
in applied fields of social psychology, such as economics, marketing, politics, law, sports, the 
environment, the community, or health. Preference will be given to original empirical and 
experimental manuscripts, but theoretical contributions, critical reviews, and replications of 
published research are welcome as well. 

 

Experience and Innovation 

The journal was published until volume 38 (2007) as the Zeitschrift für Sozialpsychologie 
(ISSN 0044-3514). Drawing on over 30 years of experience and tradition in publishing high-
quality, innovative science as the Zeitschrift für Sozialpsychologie, Social Psychology has an 
internationally renowned team of editors and consulting editors from all areas of basic and 
applied social psychology, thus ensuring that the highest international standards are 
maintained. 

 

Transparency, Openness, and Replicability 

Social Psychology is committed to increasing openness and transparency of the research 
process. We therefore require authors to 

(a) report sample size and power considerations, 

(b) report effect sizes and confidence intervals for these effect sizes, 

(c) to share their data (upon acceptance), 

(d) to share their materials (upon acceptance) 

(e) to share their analytic code producing the reported findings (upon acceptance) 

In addition, we encourage authors to preregister experiments with their analysis plans. 
Authors will report whether they preregistered their studies and, if they did, to provide the 
respective URL in the manuscript. We also encourage authors to include the 21-word 
statement by Simmons, Nelson, and Simonsohn (2011) for empirical studies: 

 

“We report how we determined our sample size, all data exclusions (if any), all 
manipulations, and all measures in the study.“ 


Social Psychology publishes the following types of articles 

 

Original Articles, Research Reports, and Replications. 

 

Original Articles report empirical and/or theoretical contributions to social psychological 
research; they should not exceed 8,000 words (including abstract, text, references, notes, 
appendices, as well as figures and tables). 

Research Reports present concise descriptions of innovative empirical findings; they 
should not exceed 2,500 words (including abstract, text, references, notes, appendices, as 
well as figures and tables). 

Replications offer the opportunity to report successful or failed replications of existing 
research; they should not exceed 2,500 words (including abstract, text, references, notes, 
appendices, as well as figures and tables). Please note that electronic supplementary material 
(ESM) is not included in the word count. 

 

Rapid Turnaround 

Social Psychology offers a rapid and transparent peer-review process and a short time-lag 
between acceptance of papers and publication. The time between manuscript submission and 
editorial decision is usually less than 8 weeks. Mean time from submission to first decision 
(2019): 60 days. 

 

Manuscript Submission 

All manuscripts should be submitted online at http://www.editorialmanager.com/sopsy, 
including electronic supplementary material (ESM). Please follow the online instructions for 
submission. Should you have any technical queries regarding this process, please contact 
Juliane Munson, Hogrefe Publishing (E-mail production@hogrefe.com, Tel. +49 551 99950-
422, fax +49 551 99950-425). 

Please direct any editorial questions to the editorial office: 

E-mail SocialPsych.EditorialOffice@gmail.com 

 

Manuscript format and style 

Blind Reviewing is Mandatory 

Authors should therefore remove all potentially identifying information from the manuscript, 
replacing names and any indication of the university where a study was conducted by neutral 
placeholders. 

 

Title Page 

To facilitate blind reviewing, the Title Page of the submitted manuscript should include only 
the paper’s title and running head. A second title page including all author information 


should be submitted as a separate document. This should include the title, author name(s) 
(preceded by first names, but with no academic titles given); name of institute (if there is 
more than one author or institution, affiliations should be indicated, using superscript Arabic 
numerals); and an address for correspondence (including the name of the corresponding 
author and e-mail address). 

 

Author contribution 

Please state the contribution of each author on the title page of your submission (e.g., “All 
authors were involved in all parts of the research; XY designed the study and collected the 
data”; etc.). 

 

Abstract 

An Abstract (maximum length 120 words) should be printed on a separate sheet for original 
papers, reviews, and reports. A maximum of 5 keywords should be given after the abstract. 
Reference Citations in the text and in the reference list proper should follow conventions 
listed in the Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association, 7th ed. (APA 
Manual). Tables should be numbered using Arabic numerals. 

 

Tables and Figures 

Tables must be cited in the text (e.g., ‘‘As shown in Table 1, . . .’’). Each table should be 
printed on a separate sheet. Below the table number, a brief descriptive title should be given; 
this should then be followed by the body of the table. It is recommended that each table 
should also include a brief explanatory legend. 

Figures should be numbered using Arabic numerals. Each figure must be cited in the text 
(e.g., ‘‘As illustrated in Figure 1, . . .’’) and should be accompanied by a legend on a separate 
sheet. As online submission requires papers to be submitted as one file, figures and tables etc 
should be embedded or appended to the paper and not be sent as separate files. However, 
upon acceptance of an article, it may be necessary for figures to be supplied separately in a 
form suitable for better reproduction: preferably high-resolution (300 dpi) or vector graphics 
files. Where this is necessary, the corresponding author will be notified by the publishers. 
Figures will normally be reproduced in black and white only. While it is possible to reproduce 
color illustrations, authors are reminded that they will be invoiced for the extra costs 
involved. 

Note that an allowance for any tables and figures should be deducted from the above 
depending on their size (approximately 200 words per quarter print page). 

 

Scientific Nomenclature and Style 

Authors should follow the guidelines of the APA Manual regarding style and nomenclature. 
Authors should avoid using masculine generic forms in their manuscripts. General 
statements about groups of people should be written in gender-neutral form (see APA 


Manual); when presenting examples, authors may alternate between female and male forms 
throughout their text. In the reference list make sure to provide the DOIs (Digital Object 
Identifier) of the cited journal articles. 

 

Language 

It is recommended that authors who are not native speakers of English have their papers 
checked and corrected by a native-speaker colleague before submission. Standard US 
American spelling and punctuation as given in Webster’s New Collegiate Dictionary should 
be followed. 

 

 

Open Data and Electronic Supplementary Material (ESM) 

Authors may submit study data, analysis scripts, and other study materials for manuscripts 
that involve new data as Electronic Supplementary Materials (ESM). In general, may be files 
that were used to carry out the research (such as datasets) or additional items that are not 
essential for inclusion in the full text but would nevertheless benefit the reader. Being 
electronic, ESM can also include items that cannot, at this time, be produced in print form. 
ESM will be published online as received from the author(s) without any conversion, testing, 
or reformatting. They will not be checked for typographical errors or functionality. The 
responsibility for the content and functionality remains entirely with the author(s). 

Hogrefe Publishing does not provide technical support for the creation or viewing of the 
supplementary files. If necessary, authors should seek the assistance of their local IT 
department. Like the manuscript, ESM should be original and not previously published. If 
previously published, it must be submitted with the necessary permissions. Note that the 
ESM files, just like the article itself, are permanent records and may not be altered once they 
have been published online. 

Please ensure that any ESM submitted with the article is in compliance with the EU 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 

 

Submission of ESM 

ESM files will be subjected to peer review along with the article itself. The number of ESM 
files you submit should be limited to 10. The file size should be kept as small as possible, not 
exceeding 10 MB in total. All file formats are accepted with the exception of executable files 
(e.g., .exe, .com, or .msi). Commonly used file formats that are accessible by most readers are 
preferred. Following the online instructions, submit the ESM files in a single zip file separate 
from the other files that are part of your submission. 

 

Citation in manuscript 

All ESM files must be referred to with in-text citations (as for tables, figures, and appendices) 
and should be numbered in the order in which they are cited in the text. Follow the example: 


For more information, listen to the audio file in Electronic Supplementary Material 1. 

or: (listen to the audio file in Electronic Supplementary Material 1) 

or: (the audio file is provided in Electronic Supplementary Material 1) 

 

If appropriate, you may combine several ESM elements into a single file. For example: 

 

See Tables 1–3 in Electronic Supplementary Material 1. 

 

Include a section headed ‘‘Electronic Supplementary Material’’ at the end of your article 
before the reference section. List all files in the order in which they are cited in the text. 
Provide a title for each ESM file along with the file name. Optionally, you may also provide a 
short description for each file (max. 20 words). Follow the example: 

 

ESM 1. Audio file (.mp3). (= title and file name) 

This audio file contains utterances of the study participants. (= description of file) 

ESM 1. Tables 1–3 (.xlsx). (= title and file name) 

The tables show additional p-values, weather variables, and demographic characteristics. 
(= description of file) 

 

Make sure that the file names listed here match the names of the submitted files. Please note 
that only the title and the description will appear in the article; the file name will not. It is for 
reference purposes only. 

 

 

Proofs 

PDF proofs will be sent to the corresponding author. Changes of content or stylistic changes 
may only be made in exceptional cases in the proofs. Corrections that exceed 5% of the 
typesetting costs may be invoiced to the authors. 

 

 

Offprints 

 

Hogrefe will send the corresponding author of each accepted paper free of charge an 
e-offprint (PDF) of the published version of the paper when it is first released online. This 
e-offprint is provided for the author’s personal use, including for sharing with coauthors (see 
also ‘‘Guidelines on sharing and use of articles in Hogrefe journals’’ on the journal’s web page 
at www.hogrefe.com/j/sp). 

 

 


Copyright Agreement 

 

By submitting an article, the author confirms and guarantees on behalf of themselves and any 
co-authors that the manuscript has not been submitted or published elsewhere, and that they 
hold all copyright in and titles to the submitted contribution, including any figures, 
photographs, line drawings, plans, maps, sketches, and tables, and that the article and its 
contents do not infringe in any way on the rights of third parties. The author indemnifies and 
holds harmless the publisher from any third-party claims. 

The author agrees, upon acceptance of the article for publication, to transfer to the publisher 
the exclusive right to reproduce and distribute the article and its contents, both physically and in 
nonphysical, electronic, or other form, in the journal to which it has been submitted and in other 
independent publications, with no limitations on the number of copies or on the form or the 
extent of distribution. These rights are transferred for the duration of copyright as defined by 
international law. Furthermore, the author transfers to the publisher the following exclusive 
rights to the article and its contents: 

1. The rights to produce advance copies, reprints, or offprints of the article, in full or in part, 
to undertake or allow translations into other languages, to distribute other forms or 
modified versions of the article, and to produce and distribute summaries or abstracts. 

2. The rights to microfilm and microfiche editions or similar, to the use of the article and its 
contents in videotext, teletext, and similar systems, to recordings or reproduction using 
other media, digital or analog, including electronic, magnetic, and optical media, and in 
multimedia form, as well as for public broadcasting in radio, television, or other forms of 
broadcast. 

3. The rights to store the article and its content in machine-readable or electronic form on all 
media (such as computer disks, compact disks, magnetic tape), to store the article and its 
contents in online databases belonging to the publisher or third parties for viewing or 
downloading by third parties, and to present or reproduce the article or its contents on 
visual display screens, monitors, and similar devices, either directly or via data 
transmission. 

4. The rights to reproduce and distribute the article and its contents by all other means, 
including photo-mechanical and similar processes (such as photocopying or facsimile), and 
as part of so-called document delivery services. 

5. The right to transfer any or all rights mentioned in this agreement, as well as rights 
retained by the relevant copyright clearing centers, including royalty rights to third 
parties. 

 


Online Rights for Journal Articles 

 

Guidelines on authors’ rights to archive electronic versions of their manuscripts online are 
given in the document ‘‘Guidelines on sharing and use of articles in Hogrefe journals’’ on the 
journal’s web page at www.hogrefe.com/j/sp. 

 

July 2020 


