Studies in Comparative International Development Instructions for Authors 

Studies in Comparative International Development (SCID) (ISSN 0039---3606) is an 
interdisciplinary journal that addresses issues concerning political, social, economic, 
and environmental change in local, national, and international contexts. Among its 
major emphases are political and state institutions; the effects of a changing 
international economy; political---economic models of growth and distribution; and the 
transformation of social structure and culture. 

The journal has a tradition of presenting critical and innovative analytical 
perspectives that challenge prevailing orthodoxies. It publishes original research 
articles on the developing world and is open to all theoretical and methodical 
approaches. 

Word count for all submissions should not exceed 10,000 words including notes, 
references, tables and figures. The abstract is not included in the word count. Longer 
submissions will not be considered. Authors may include further material in an online 
appendix. 

To submit a manuscript, go to: http://www.editorialmanager.com/scid/ 

SUBMISSION GUIDELINES 

1. Submission is a representation that the manuscript has not been published 
previously and is not currently under consideration for publication elsewhere. A 
statement transferring copyright from the authors (or their employers, if they hold 
the copyright) to Studies in Comparative International Development will be 
required before the manuscript can be accepted for publication. 
2. Manuscripts and accompanying materials may be submitted in a wide range of 
supported file formats, including: MS Word, WordPerfect, RTF, TXT, TIFF, GIF, JPEG, 
EPS, LaTeX2E, TeX, Postscript, PICT, Excel, Tar, Zip, and Powerpoint. PDF is not an 
acceptable file format. Manuscripts must be double---spaced, leaving margins of at 
least 1." Manuscript length should be reasonable for the contribution offered. 
3. A title page is to be provided and should include the title of the article, author’s 
name (no degrees), author’s affiliation, and suggested running head. The affiliation 
should comprise the department, institution (usually university or company), city, 
and state (or nation). For office purposes, the title page should include the email 
address and telephone number of the one author designated to review proofs. 
4. An abstract, no longer than 200 words, is to be provided on a separate page. 
5. A list of 4---5 key words is to be provided directly below the abstract. Key words 
should express the precise content of the manuscript, as they are used for indexing 
purposes. 

6. American rather than British spellings should be used (e.g., labor vs. labour; while 
vs. whilst; democratization vs. democratisation; center vs. centre). If foreign 
spellings appear as part of quoted material or titles, leave as is. 
Single quotation marks should be used only when a quotation appears within 
another quotation. 

It may be helpful to run a spell check using the American dictionary in MS Word. 

7. Mathematical notation should be typewritten wherever possible. If handwritten 
notation must be used, it should be clear and legible, with any necessary 
explanatory notes located in the margin. Equations should be numbered 
consecutively with Arabic numerals in parentheses and should be referred to in the 
text. Equation references in the text should be abbreviated such as: As shown in Eq. 
(5), the model … 
8. All sections should be in boldface type (such as Introduction). Subsections should 
be in normal type (such as Second−ValueSubheading). An independent single 
number system (one for each category) should be used to label all theorems, 
propositions, corollaries, definitions, remarks, examples, etc. The label (such as 
Theorem 4) should be typed with paragraph indentation, followed by a period and 
the theorem itself. 
9. Figures or illustrations (photographs, drawings, diagrams, and charts), are to be 
numbered in one consecutive series of Arabic numerals (e.g., Fig. 3). The captions 
for illustrations should be typed on a separate sheet of paper. Figures should be 
prepared with some clear, high contrast process (e.g., laser printer). Either original 
drawings or good quality photographic prints are acceptable. Figure captions are 
abbreviated (e.g., Fig. 3. Time series plot). 
10. Tables should be numbered (preferably with Arabic numerals) and referred to 
by number in the text (without abbreviation). Each table should be typed on a 
separate sheet of paper. 
11. Citations within the text should be styled as: Jones (1987) or (Jones, 1987), 
whichever is appropriate. Where there are three or more authors, only the first 
author’s name is given in the text, followed by et al. (e.g., Jones et al. 1983). Specific 
page citations in the text should be styled as: Jones (1987: 108–109) or (Jones 1987: 
118–119). 
12. Punctuation and style of the references should conform to that illustrated by the 
following examples: 
1. Journal article 

Smith JJ. The world of science. Am J Sci 1999;36:234–5. 

2. Journal article with DOI included 
O'Mahony S, Rose SL, Chilvers AJ, Ballinger JR, Solanki CK, Barber RW, et al. 
Finding an optimal method for imaging lymphatic vessels of the upper limb. 
Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging 2004;31:555–63. doi:10.1007/s00259---003--1399--



3. Journal article in a supplement 
Frumin AM, Nussbaum J, Esposito M. Functional asplenia: demonstration of 
splenic activity by bone marrow scan. Blood 1979;59 Suppl 1:26–32. 

4. Book chapter 
Wyllie AH, Kerr JFR, Currie AR. Cell death: the significance of apoptosis. In: 
Bourne GH, Danielli JF, Jeon KW, editors. International review of cytology. 
London: Academic; 1980. p.251–306. 

5. Book, authored 
Blenkinsopp A, Paxton P. Symptoms in the pharmacy: a guide to the 
management of common illness. 3rd ed. Oxford: Blackwell Science; 1998. 


http://www.springer.com/journal/12116 



